ICC PLAYING HANDBOOK 2019-20 
THE OFFICIAL HANDBOOK FOR INTERNATIONAL  
CRICKET PLAYERS, OFFICIALS AND ADMINISTRATORSCONTENTS
01  KEY ICC CONTACTS
02  ICC MEMBER COUNTRIES
03  ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS
04  ICC MEN’S ONE-DAY INTERNATIONAL  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
05  ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
08  ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
09  ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS
13  ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS  
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL
15  ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS
16  ICC ANTI-DOPING CODE
17  ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE FOR PARTICIPANTS
18  ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW  
OF BOWLERS REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED 
ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS
19  CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT RULES  
AND REGULATIONS
20  ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS
21  OTHER ICC REGULATIONS
Main switchboard + (971) 4382 8800
Main fax + (971) 4382 8600
General enquiry email enquiry@icc-cricket.com
Website www.icc-cricket.comInternational Cricket Council, PO Box 500070,  
Dubai, United Arab Emirates
1.1ICC KEY CONTACTS
ICC CONTACT DETAILS
 ICC DUBAI 
 Location Sh Mohammed Bin Zayed Road 
  Dubai Sports City, Street 69 
  Dubai, UAE
 Address Dubai Sports City 
  P.O. Box 500070 
  Dubai, UAE
 Main switchboard + (971) 4 382 8800
 Fax  + (971) 4 382 8600
 Website www.icc-cricket.com
 General Enquiries enquiry@icc-cricket.com
 Media Enquiries  media@icc-cricket.com 
 CRICKET OPERATIONS
 General Manager – Cricket  Geoff Allardice 
   geoff.allardice@icc-cricket.com
 Senior Cricket  Clive Hitchcock 
 Operations Manager  clive.hitchcock@icc-cricket.com
	 Senior	Manager	 Adrian	Griffith 
 Umpires and Referees	 adrian.griffith@icc-cricket.com
01
ICC KEY CONTACTS
ICC KEY CONTACTS01
1.2ANTI-CORRUPTION UNIT
 ACU CONTACT DETAILS
 ACU Hotline + (971) 56 545 8909
 ACU Fax + (971) 4 340 4856
 Enquiries contactACU@icc-cricket.com
 Media Enquiries media@icc-cricket.com
All ACU media enquiries should be directed to the ICC Media Department.
ANTI-DOPING
 ANTI-DOPING CONTACT DETAILS
 Anti-Doping Hotline + (971) 50 554 5891 (24 hours)
 Anti-Doping Enquiries anti-doping@icc-cricket.com2.1ICC MEMBERS
FULL  
MEMBERS  
(12)Afghanistan India South Africa
Australia Ireland Sri Lanka
Bangladesh New Zealand West Indies
England Pakistan Zimbabwe
ASSOCIATE  
MEMBERS  
(92)Argentina Greece Philippines
Austria Guernsey PNG
Bahamas Hong Kong Portugal
Bahrain Hungary Qatar
Belgium Indonesia Romania
Belize Iran Russia
Bermuda Israel Rwanda
Botswana Isle of Man Samoa
Bhutan Italy Saudi Arabia
Brazil Japan Scotland
Bulgaria Jersey Serbia
Cameroon Kenya Seychelles
Canada Kuwait Sierra Leone
Cayman Islands Lesotho Singapore
Chile Luxembourg Slovenia
China Malawi South Korea
Cook Islands Malaysia Spain
Costa Rica Maldives St Helena
Croatia Mali Suriname
Cyprus Malta Swaziland
Czech Republic Mexico Sweden
Denmark Mozambique Tanzania
Estonia Myanmar Thailand
Falkland Islands Namibia Turkey
Fiji Nepal Turks & Caicos
Finland Netherlands UAE
France Nigeria Uganda
Gambia Norway USA
Germany Oman Vanuatu
Ghana Panama Zambia
Gibraltar Peru
Contact details for ICC Members can be found at the ICC website at  
www.icc-cricket.com/about/members
02
ICC MEMBERS
3.1CONTENTS
1 THE PLAYERS 3.3
2 THE UMPIRES 3.6
3 THE SCORERS 3.12
4 THE BALL 3.12
5 THE BAT 3.13
6 THE PITCH 3.15
7 THE CREASES 3.16
8 THE WICKETS 3.17
9 PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PLAYING AREA 3.18
10 COVERING THE PITCH 3.21
11 INTERVALS 3.22
12 START OF PLAY; CESSATION OF PLAY 3.25
13 INNINGS 3.33
14 THE FOLLOW-ON 3.34
15 DECLARATION AND FORFEITURE 3.35
16 THE RESULT 3.35
17 THE OVER 3.39
18 SCORING RUNS 3.41
19 BOUNDARIES 3.44
20 DEAD BALL 3.47
21 NO BALL 3.49
22 WIDE BALL 3.52
23 BYE AND LEG BYE 3.54
24 FIELDER’S ABSENCE; SUBSTITUTES 3.55
25 BATSMAN’S INNINGS 3.57
26 PRACTICE ON THE FIELD 3.58
27 THE WICKET-KEEPER 3.59
28 THE FIELDER 3.61
29 THE WICKET IS DOWN 3.63
30 BATSMAN OUT OF HIS GROUND 3.64
31 APPEALS 3.65
32 BOWLED 3.66
33 CAUGHT 3.67
34 HIT THE BALL TWICE 3.68
35 HIT WICKET 3.69
36 LEG BEFORE WICKET 3.69ICC MEN’S WORLD  
TEST CHAMPIONSHIP  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
 03
ICC MEN’S WORLD  
TEST CHAMPIONSHIP  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
Effective from 1 August 2019ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS03
3.2
PREAMBLE  
THE SPIRIT OF CRICKET
Cricket owes much of its appeal and enjoyment to the fact that it should be played 
not only according to the Laws (which are incorporated within these Playing 
Conditions), but also within the Spirit of Cricket. 
The major responsibility for ensuring fair play rests with the captains, but extends to all 
players,	match	officials	and,	especially	in	junior	cricket,	teachers,	coaches	and	parents.
Respect is central to the Spirit of Cricket.
Respect your captain, team-mates, opponents and the authority of the umpires.
Play hard and play fair.
Accept the umpire’s decision.
Create a positive atmosphere by your own conduct, and encourage others  
to do likewise.
Show self-discipline, even when things go against you.
Congratulate the opposition on their successes, and enjoy those of your own team.
Thank	the	officials	and	your	opposition	at	the	end	of	the	match,	whatever	the	result.
Cricket is an exciting game that encourages leadership, friendship and teamwork, 
which brings together people from different nationalities, cultures and religions, 
especially when played within the Spirit of Cricket.
 1 THE PLAYERS
 1.1 Number of players
  A match is played between two sides, each of eleven players, one of 
whom shall be captain.
 1.2 Nomination and replacement of players
 1.2.1 Each captain shall nominate 11 players plus a maximum of 6 
substitute	fielders	in	writing	to	the	ICC	Match	Referee	before	
the toss. Other than as set out in clause 1.2.7, no player (member 
of the playing eleven) may be changed after the nomination 
without the consent of the opposing captain.
	 1.2.2	 Only	those	nominated	as	substitute	fielders	shall	be	entitled	 
to	act	as	substitute	fielders	during	the	match,	unless	the	
ICC Match Referee, in exceptional circumstances, allows 
subsequent additions.
 1.2.3 All those nominated including those nominated as substitute 
fielders,	as	well	as	any	Concussion	Replacements,	must	be	
eligible to play for that particular team and by such nomination 
the nominees shall warrant that they are so eligible.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03
3.337 OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD 3.70
38 RUN OUT 3.71
39 STUMPED 3.72
40 TIMED OUT 3.73
41 UNFAIR PLAY 3.73
42 PLAYERS’ CONDUCT 3.86
APPENDIX A DEFINITIONS
1 The match 3.89
2 Implements and equipment 3.90
3 The playing area 3.90
4 Positioning 3.90
5 Umpires and decision-making 3.91
6 Batsmen 3.93
7 Fielders 3.93
8 Substitutes and Concussion Replacements 3.93
9 Bowlers 3.94
10 The ball 3.94
11 Runs 3.95
12 The person 3.95
13 Off side / on side; in front of / behind the popping crease. 3.96
APPENDIX B EQUIPMENT
1 The Bat 3.97
2 The wickets 3.100
3 Wicket-keeping gloves 3.101
APPENDIX C THE VENUE
1 The pitch and the creases 3.102
2 Advertising on grounds, perimeter boards and sight-screens 3.103
3	 Markings	on	outfield	 3.103
APPENDIX D DECISION REVIEW SYSTEM (DRS)
1 General 3.104
2 Umpire Review 3.105
3 Player Review 3.108
4 Interpretation of Playing Conditions 3.118
APPENDIX E CALCULATIONS 3.119
APPENDIX F USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT 3.121ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.4 3.5 1.2.7.3.4  identify the requested Concussion 
Replacement, who shall be a like-for-like 
replacement for the player who has sustained 
the concussion or suspected concussion.
 1.2.7.4  The Concussion Replacement Request must be 
submitted	within	36	hours	of	the	incident	specified	in 	
1.2.7.3.2 if a Concussion Replacement is to be permitted.
 1.2.8 The ICC Match Referee should ordinarily approve a Concussion 
Replacement Request if the replacement is a like-for-like player 
whose inclusion will not excessively advantage his team for the 
remainder of the match.
 1.2.8.1 In assessing whether the nominated Concussion 
Replacement should be considered a like-for-like 
player, the ICC Match Referee should consider the 
likely role the concussed player would have played 
during the remainder of the match, and the normal 
role that would be performed by the nominated 
Concussion Replacement.
 1.2.8.2 If the ICC Match Referee believes that the inclusion 
of the nominated Concussion Replacement, when 
performing their normal role, would excessively 
advantage their team, the Match Referee may impose 
such conditions upon the identity and involvement 
of	the	Concussion	Replacement	as	he/she	sees	fit,	
in line with the overriding objective of facilitating a 
like-for-like replacement for the concussed player.
 1.2.8.3  The ICC Match Referee may, in reviewing a Concussion 
Replacement Request made in accordance with clause 
1.2.7.3, request any such further information as may be 
required in order to make the determination required 
under clauses 1.2.8.1 and 1.2.8.2.
 1.2.9 The decision of the ICC Match Referee in relation to any 
Concussion	Replacement	Request	shall	be	final	and	neither	
team shall have any right of appeal.
 1.2.10 Once the Concussion Replacement has been 
approved by the ICC Match Referee, the replaced 
player shall play no further part in the match.
 1.2.11 Both the Concussion Replacement and the replaced 
player shall be considered to have played in the 
match for records and statistical purposes.
 1.3 Captain
 1.3.1 If at any time the captain is not available, a deputy shall act for him.
 1.3.2 If a captain is not available to nominate the players, then any 
person associated with that team may act as his deputy to do 
so. See clause 1.2.
 1.3.3 At any time after the nomination of the players, only a 
nominated player can act as deputy in discharging the duties 
and responsibilities of the captain as stated in these Playing 
Conditions, including at the toss. See clause 13.4(The toss). 1.2.4 In addition, by their nomination, the nominees shall be deemed 
to have agreed to abide by all the applicable ICC Regulations 
pertaining to international cricket and in particular, the Clothing 
and Equipment Regulations, the Code of Conduct for Players and 
Player Support Personnel (hereafter referred to as the ICC Code 
of Conduct), the Anti-Racism Code for Players and Player Support 
Personnel, the Anti-Doping Code and the Anti-Corruption Code.
 1.2.5 A player or player support personnel who has been suspended 
from participating in a match shall not, from the toss of the coin 
and for the remainder of the match thereafter:
 1.2.5.1 Be nominated as, or carry out any of the duties or 
responsibilities	of	a	substitute	fielder,	or
 1.2.5.2 Enter any part of the playing area (which shall include 
the	field	of	play	and	the	area	between	the	boundary	
and the perimeter boards) at any time, including any 
scheduled or unscheduled breaks in play.
 1.2.6 A player who has been suspended from participating in a 
match shall be permitted from the toss of the coin and for the 
remainder of the match thereafter be permitted to enter the 
players’ dressing room provided that the players’ dressing room 
(or any part thereof) for the match is not within the playing area 
described in clause 1.2.5.2 above (for example, the player is not 
permitted	to	enter	the	on-field	‘dug-out’).
 1.2.7 If a player sustains a concussion or suspected concussion as a 
result of a head or neck injury during the course of the relevant 
match, a Concussion Replacement may be permitted in the 
following circumstances:
 1.2.7.1 the head or neck injury must have been sustained 
during play and within the playing area described in 
clause 1.2.5.2 above;
 1.2.7.2 a concussion or suspected concussion must have 
been formally diagnosed by the Team Medical 
Representative;
 1.2.7.3  the Team Medical Representative or Team Manager 
shall submit a Concussion Replacement Request to the 
ICC Match Referee on a standard form, which shall:
 1.2.7.3.1 identify the player who has sustained the 
concussion or suspected concussion; 
 1.2.7.3.2  specify the incident in which the concussion 
or suspected concussion was sustained, 
including the time at which it occurred;
	 1.2.7.3.3	 confirm	that,	following	an	examination,	
the Team Medical Representative believes 
or suspects that the player has sustained 
a concussion as a result of the incident 
specified	in	1.2.7.3.2	above;	and	ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.6 3.7 2.3 Consultation with Home Board
  Before the match the umpires shall consult with the Home Board  
to determine:
 2.3.1 the balls to be used during the match. See clause 4 (The ball).
 2.3.2 the hours of play and the times and durations of any  
agreed intervals. 
 2.3.3 which clock or watch and back-up time piece is to be used 
during the match.
	 2.3.4	 the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play.	See	clause	19	(Boundaries).
 2.3.5 the use of covers. See clause 10 (Covering the pitch).
 2.3.6  any special conditions of play affecting the conduct of the match.
 2.4 The wickets, creases and boundaries
  Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy 
themselves that
 2.4.1 the wickets are properly pitched. See clause 8 (The wickets).
 2.4.2 the creases are correctly marked. See clause 7 (The creases).
	 2.4.3	 the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play	complies	with	the	
requirements of clauses 19.1 (Determining the boundary of the 
field	of	play),	19.2	(Identifying	and	marking	the	boundary)	and	
19.3 (Restoring the boundary).
 2.5 Conduct of the match, implements and equipment
  Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy 
themselves that
 2.5.1 the conduct of the match is strictly in accordance with these 
Playing Conditions.
 2.5.2 the implements used in the match conform to the following
 2.5.2.1 clause 4 (The ball).
 2.5.2.2 externally visible requirements of clause 5 (The bat) 
and paragraph 1 of Appendix B.
 2.5.2.3 either clauses 8.2 (Size of stumps) and 8.3 (The bails).
 2.5.3 no player uses equipment other than that permitted. See 
paragraph 2 of Appendix A. Note particularly therein the 
interpretation	of	‘protective	helmet’.
 2.5.4 the wicket-keeper’s gloves comply with the requirements of 
clause 27.2 (Gloves).
 2.6 Fair and unfair play
  The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play.
  1.4 Responsibility of captains
  The captains are responsible at all times for ensuring that play is conducted 
within the Spirit of Cricket, as well as within these Playing Conditions.
 2 THE UMPIRES
 2.1 Appointment and attendance
  The following rules for the selection and appointment of Test Match 
umpires shall be followed as far as it is practicable to do so:
	 2.1.1	 The	following	Match	Officials	are	to	be	appointed	for	each	 
Test Match;
 2.1.1.1 One (1) ICC Match Referee, appointed by the ICC from 
the ICC Elite Panel of Referees or the ICC International 
Panel of Referees, who shall not be from the same 
country as the participating teams.
	 2.1.1.2	 Two	(2)	on-field	umpires,	appointed	by	the	ICC	from	
the ICC Elite Panel of Umpires or the ICC International 
Panel of Umpires, who shall not be from the same 
country as the participating teams.
 2.1.1.3 One (1) third umpire, who shall act as the emergency 
on-field	umpire	and	officiate	in	regard	to	the	DRS,	
appointed by the ICC from the ICC Elite Panel of 
Umpires or the ICC International Panel of Umpires, 
who shall not be from the same country as the 
participating teams.
 2.1.1.3.1 The playing conditions governing the use of 
the DRS and the third umpire are included in 
Appendix D.
 2.1.1.4 One (1) fourth umpire, who shall act as the emergency 
third umpire, appointed by the Home Board, from its 
nominees to the ICC International Panel of Umpires.
 2.1.2 As early as possible before each Test Match, the ICC will advise 
the Home Board of the names of its appointees and the Home 
Board will advise the Manager of the visiting team of the names 
of	all	Match	Officials.
 2.1.3 Neither team will have a right of objection to the appointment 
of any umpire or match referee.
 2.1.4 The umpires shall control the game as required by these Playing 
Conditions, with absolute impartiality and shall be present at the 
ground	at	least	two	hours	before	the	scheduled	start	of	the	first	
day’s play, and at least 1.5 hours before the scheduled start of 
each succeeding day’s play.
 2.2 Change of umpire
  An umpire shall not be changed during the match, other than in 
exceptional circumstances, unless he/she is injured or ill.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.8 3.9 2.8.5.3 Light meter readings may accordingly be used by  
the umpires:
 2.8.5.3.1 To determine whether there has been at 
any stage a deterioration or improvement 
in the light.
 2.8.5.3.2 As benchmarks for the remainder of  
the match.
	 2.8.6	 Use	of	artificial	lights
  If in the opinion of the umpires, natural light is deteriorating to 
an	unfit	level,	they	shall	authorize	the	Ground	Authority	to	use	
the	available	artificial	lighting	so	that	the	match	can	commence	
or continue in acceptable conditions.
  In the event of power failure or lights malfunction, the 
provisions relating to the delay or interruption of play due to 
bad weather or light shall apply.
  Home Boards may, prior to the commencement of the series, 
seek the approval of the ICC to amend this playing condition to 
provide	that	artificial	lights	will	not	be	used	at	specific	venues.
  For day/night Test matches, the latest times at which the 
floodlights	are	to	be	switched	on	each	day	shall	be	decided	by	
the Home Board prior to the match and the ICC Match Referee 
shall be duly informed.
 2.8.7 When there is a suspension of play it is the responsibility of the 
umpires to monitor conditions. They shall make inspections as 
often	as	appropriate,	unaccompanied	by	any	players	or	officials.	
Immediately the umpires together agree that the conditions are 
no longer dangerous or unreasonable they shall call upon the 
players to resume play.
 2.8.8 The safety of all persons within the ground is of paramount 
importance to the ICC. In the event that of any threatening 
circumstance, whether actual or perceived (including for 
example weather, pitch invasions, act of God, etc.), then the 
umpires, on the advice of the ICC Match Referee, should 
suspend	play	and	all	players	and	officials	should	immediately	
be	asked	to	leave	the	field	of	play	in	a	safe	and	orderly	manner	
and to relocate to a secure and safe area (depending on each 
particular threat) pending the satisfactory passing or resolution 
of such threat or risk to the reasonable satisfaction of the 
umpires, the ICC Match Referee, the head of the relevant 
Ground Authority, the head of ground security and/or the police 
as the circumstances may require.
 2.8.9 Where play is suspended under clause 2.8.8 above the decision 
to abandon or resume play shall be the responsibility of the ICC 
Match Referee who shall act only after consultation with the 
head of ground security and the police.
  2.7 Fitness for play
 2.7.1 It is solely for the umpires together to decide whether 
either conditions of ground, weather or light or exceptional 
circumstances mean that it would be dangerous or 
unreasonable for play to take place.
  Conditions shall not be regarded as either dangerous or 
unreasonable merely because they are not ideal.
  The fact that the grass and the ball are wet does not warrant the 
ground conditions being regarded as unreasonable or dangerous.
 2.7.2 Conditions shall be regarded as dangerous if there is actual and 
foreseeable risk to the safety of any player or umpire.
 2.7.3  Conditions shall be regarded as unreasonable if, although posing 
no risk to safety, it would not be sensible for play to proceed.
 2.7.4 If the umpires consider the ground is so wet or slippery as to 
deprive	the	bowler	of	a	reasonable	foothold,	the	fielders	of	
the power of free movement, or the batsmen of the ability 
to play their strokes or to run between the wickets, then 
these conditions shall be regarded as so bad that it would be 
dangerous and unreasonable for play to take place.
 2.8 Suspension of play in dangerous or unreasonable circumstances
 2.8.1 All references to ground include the pitch. See clause 6.1  
(Area of pitch).
 2.8.2 If at any time the umpires together agree that the conditions 
of ground, weather or light, or any other circumstances are 
dangerous or unreasonable, they shall immediately suspend 
play, or not allow play to start or to recommence. The decision 
as to whether conditions are so bad as to warrant such action is 
one for the umpires alone to make, following consultation with 
the ICC Match Referee.
 2.8.3 If circumstances are warranted, the umpires shall stop play and 
instruct the Ground Authority to take whatever action they can 
and use whatever equipment is necessary to remove as much 
dew	as	possible	from	the	outfield	when	conditions	become	
unreasonable or dangerous. The umpires may also instruct 
the ground staff to take such action during scheduled and 
unscheduled breaks in play.
 2.8.4 The umpires shall disregard any shadow on the pitch from  
the stadium or from any permanent object on the ground.
 2.8.5 Light Meters
  It is the responsibility of the ICC to supply light meters to  
the	match	officials	to	be	used	in	accordance	with	these	  
playing conditions.
 2.8.5.1 All light meters shall be uniformly calibrated.
 2.8.5.2 The umpires shall be entitled to use light meter 
readings as a guideline for determining whether the 
light	is	fit	for	play	in	accordance	with	the	criteria	set	
out in clause 2.8.2 above.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.10 3.11	 	 Five	Penalty	runs	awarded	to	the	fielding	side	-	 
by placing one hand on the opposite shoulder.
  Leg bye - by touching a raised knee with the hand.
  New ball - by holding the ball above the head.
  Revoke last signal - by touching both shoulders, each 
with the opposite hand.
  Short run - by bending one arm upwards and touching 
the	nearer	shoulder	with	the	tips	of	the	fingers.
  The following signal is for Level 4 player conduct 
offences. The signal has two parts, both of which 
should be acknowledged separately by the scorers.
  Level 4 conduct
  Part 1 - by putting one arm out to the side of the body 
and repeatedly raising it and lowering it.
	 	 Part	2	-	by	raising	an	index	finger,	held	at	shoulder	
height, to the side of the body.
 2.13.1.4 All the signals in clause 2.13.1.3 are to be made by the 
bowler’s end umpire except that for Short run, which 
is to be signalled by the umpire at the end where 
short running occurs. However, the bowler’s end 
umpire	shall	be	responsible	both	for	the	final	signal	of	
Short run to the scorers and, if more than one run is 
short, for informing them as to the number of runs to 
be recorded.
 2.13.2 The umpire shall wait until each signal to the scorers has  
been separately acknowledged by a scorer before allowing  
play to proceed.
  If several signals are to be used, they should be given in the 
order that the events occurred.
 2.14 Informing the umpires
  Wherever the umpires are to receive information from captains or other 
players	under	these	Playing	Conditions,	it	will	be	sufficient	for	one	
umpire to be so informed and for him/her to inform the other umpire.
 2.15 Correctness of scores
  Consultation between umpires and scorers on doubtful points is 
essential. The umpires shall, throughout the match, satisfy themselves as 
to the correctness of the number of runs scored, the wickets that have 
fallen and, where appropriate, the number of overs bowled. 
  The umpires shall ensure that they are able to contact the scorers at 
any time during the match and at its conclusion to address any issues 
relating to the correctness of scores. 2.9 Position of umpires
  The umpires shall stand where they can best see any act upon which 
their decision may be required.
  Subject to this over-riding consideration, the bowler’s end umpire shall 
stand in a position so as not to interfere with either the bowler’s run-up 
or the striker’s view.
  The striker’s end umpire may elect to stand on the off side instead of the 
on	side	of	the	pitch,	provided	he	informs	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side,	
the striker and the other umpire.
 2.10 Umpires changing ends
  The umpires shall change ends after each side has had one completed 
innings. See clause 13.3 (Completed innings).
 2.11 Disagreement and dispute
  Where there is disagreement or dispute about any matter, the umpires 
together	shall	make	the	final	decision.	See	also	clause	31.6	(Consultation	
by umpires).
 2.12 Umpire’s decision
  An umpire may alter any decision provided that such alteration is made 
promptly.	This	apart,	an	umpire’s	decision,	once	made,	is	final.
 2.13 Signals
 2.13.1 The following code of signals shall be used by umpires.
 2.13.1.1 Signals made while the ball is in play
  No ball - by extending one arm horizontally.
	 	 Out	-	by	raising	an	index	finger	above	the	head.	(If	not	
out, the umpire shall call Not out.)
  Wide - by extending both arms horizontally.
  Dead ball - by crossing and re-crossing the wrists 
below the waist.
 2.13.1.2 When the ball is dead, the bowler’s end umpire shall 
repeat the signals in clause 2.13.1.1, with the exception 
of the signal for Out, to the scorers.
 2.13.1.3 The signals listed below shall be made to the scorers 
only when the ball is dead.
  Boundary 4 - by waving an arm from side to side 
finishing	with	the	arm	across	the	chest
  Boundary 6 - by raising both arms above the head.
  Bye - by raising an open hand above the head.
  Commencement of last hour - by pointing to a raised 
wrist with the other hand.
  Five Penalty runs awarded to the batting side -  
by repeated tapping of one shoulder with the 
opposite hand.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.12 3.13	 4.5	 Ball	lost	or	becoming	unfit	for	play
  If, during play, the ball cannot be found or recovered or the umpires 
agree	that	it	has	become	unfit	for	play	through	normal	use,	the	
umpires shall replace it with a ball which has had wear comparable 
with that which the previous ball had received before the need for its 
replacement. When the ball is replaced, the umpires shall inform the 
batsmen	and	the	fielding	captain.
  However, if the ball needs to be replaced after 110 overs for any of the 
reasons above, it shall be replaced by a new ball. If the ball is to be 
replaced,	the	umpires	shall	inform	the	batsmen,	the	fielding	captain	and	
the scorers.
 5 THE BAT
 5.1 The bat
 5.1.1 The bat consists of two parts, a handle and a blade.
 5.1.2 The basic requirements and measurements of the bat are set 
out	in	this	clause	with	detailed	specifications	in	paragraph	1	of	
Appendix B.
 5.2 The handle
 5.2.1 The handle is to be made principally of cane and/or wood.
 5.2.2 The part of the handle that is wholly outside the blade is 
defined	to	be	the	upper	portion	of	the	handle.	It	is	a	straight	
shaft for holding the bat.
 5.2.3 The upper portion of the handle may be covered with a grip as 
defined	in	paragraph	1.2.2	of	Appendix	B.
 5.3 The blade
 5.3.1 The blade comprises the whole of the bat apart from the handle 
as	defined	in	clause	5.2	and	in	paragraph	1.3	of	Appendix	B.
 5.3.2 The blade shall consist solely of wood.
 5.4 Protection and repair
	 	 Subject	to	the	specifications	in	paragraph	1.4	of	Appendix	B	and	
providing clause 5.5 is not contravened,
 5.4.1 solely for the purposes of
  either protection from surface damage to the face, sides 
 and shoulders of the blade
  or repair to the blade after surface damage,
  material that is not rigid, either at the time of its application to 
the blade or subsequently, may be placed on these surfaces.
 5.4.2 for repair of the blade after damage other than surface damage
 5.4.2.1 solid material may be inserted into the blade.
 5.4.2.2 The only material permitted for any insertion is wood 
with minimal essential adhesives. 3 THE SCORERS
 3.1 Appointment of scorers
  Two scorers shall be appointed to record all runs scored, all wickets 
taken and, where appropriate, number of overs bowled.
 3.2 Correctness of scores
  The scorers shall frequently check to ensure that their records  
agree and consult with the umpires if necessary. See clause 2.15 
(Correctness of scores).
 3.3 Acknowledging signals
  The scorers shall accept all instructions and signals given to them by the 
umpires and shall immediately acknowledge each separate signal.
 4 THE BALL
 4.1 Weight and size
  The ball, when new, shall weigh not less than 5.5 ounces/155.9 g, nor 
more than 5.75 ounces/163 g, and shall measure not less than 8.81 in/22.4 
cm, nor more than 9 in/22.9 cm in circumference.
 4.2 Approval and control of balls
 4.2.1 The Home Board shall provide cricket balls of an approved 
standard for Test cricket and spare used balls for changing 
during a match, which shall also be of the same brand. Note: The 
Home Board shall be required to advise the Visiting Board of the 
brand of ball to be used in the match(es) at least 30 days prior 
to the start of the match(es).
	 4.2.2	 The	fielding	captain	or	his	nominee	may	select	the	ball	with	
which he wishes to bowl from the supply provided by the Home 
Board. The fourth umpire shall take a box containing at least 6 
new balls to the dressing room and supervise the selection of 
the ball.
 4.2.3 The umpires shall retain possession of the match ball(s) 
throughout the duration of the match when play is not actually 
taking place.
 4.2.4 During play umpires shall periodically and irregularly inspect the 
condition of the ball and shall retain possession of it at the fall 
of a wicket, a drinks interval, or any other disruption in play.
 4.3 New ball
  A new ball shall be used at the start of each innings.
 4.4 New ball available after 80 overs
	 	 The	captain	of	the	fielding	side	may	demand	a	new	ball	when	the	
number of overs, excluding any part overs, bowled with the old one 
is equal to or greater than 80 overs. The umpire shall inform the other 
umpire and indicate to the batsmen and the scorers whenever a new 
ball is taken into play.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.14 3.15 5.8 Categories of bat
 5.8.1 Type A bats conform to clause 5.1 to 5.7 inclusive.
 5.8.2 Only Type A bats may be used in Test matches.
 6 THE PITCH
 6.1 Area of pitch
  The pitch is a rectangular area of the ground 22 yards/20.12 m in length 
and 10 ft/3.05 m in width. It is bounded at either end by the bowling 
creases and on either side by imaginary lines, one each side of the 
imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps, each parallel 
to	it	and	5	ft/1.52	m	from	it.	If	the	pitch	is	next	to	an	artificial	pitch	which 	
is closer than 5 ft/1.52 m from the middle stumps, the pitch on that side 
will extend only to the junction of the two surfaces. See clauses 8.1 
(Description, width and pitching) and 7.2 (The bowling crease).
 6.2 Fitness of pitch for play
	 	 The	umpires	shall	be	the	sole	judges	of	the	fitness	of	the	pitch	for	play.	
See clauses 2.7 (Fitness for play), 2.8 (Suspension of play in dangerous or 
unreasonable conditions) and 6.4 (changing the pitch).
 6.3 Selection and preparation
  Before the match, the Ground Authority shall be responsible for the 
selection and preparation of the pitch. During the match, the umpires 
shall control its use and maintenance.
 6.3.1 The Ground Authority shall ensure that during the period prior 
to the start of play and during intervals, the pitch area shall be 
roped off so as to prevent unauthorised access. (The pitch area 
shall include an area at least 2 metres beyond the rectangle 
made by the crease markings at both ends of the pitch).
 6.3.2 The fourth umpire shall ensure that, prior to the start of play 
and during any intervals, only authorised staff, the ICC match 
officials,	players,	team	coaches	and	authorised	television	
personnel shall be allowed access to the pitch area. Such access 
shall be subject to the following limitations:
 6.3.2.1 Only captains and team coaches may walk on the 
actual playing surface of the pitch area (outside of the 
crease markings).
 6.3.2.2 Access to the pitch area by television personnel shall 
be restricted to one camera crew (including one or 
two	television	commentators)	of	the	official	licensed	
television broadcaster(s) (but not news crews).
 6.3.2.3 No spiked footwear shall be permitted.
 6.3.2.4 No one shall be permitted to bounce a ball on the 
pitch, strike it with a bat or cause damage to the pitch 
in any other way.
 6.3.2.5 Access shall not interfere with pitch preparation.
 6.3.3 In the event of any dispute, the ICC Match Referee will rule and 
his	ruling	will	be	final. 5.4.3 to prevent damage to the toe, material may be placed on that 
part of the blade but shall not extend over any part of the face, 
back or sides of the blade.
 5.5 Damage to the ball
 5.5.1 For any part of the bat, covered or uncovered, the hardness 
of the constituent materials and the surface texture thereof 
shall not be such that either or both could cause unacceptable 
damage to the ball.
 5.5.2 Any material placed on any part of the bat, for whatever 
purpose, shall similarly not be such that it could cause 
unacceptable damage to the ball.
 5.5.3 For the purpose of this clause, unacceptable damage is any 
change that is greater than normal wear and tear caused by the 
ball striking the uncovered wooden surface of the blade.
 5.6 Contact with the ball
  In these clauses,
 5.6.1 reference to the bat shall imply that the bat is held in the 
batsman’s hand or a glove worn on his hand, unless stated 
otherwise.
 5.6.2 contact between the ball and any of 5.6.2.1 to 5.6.2.4
 5.6.2.1 the bat itself
 5.6.2.2 the batsman’s hand holding the bat
 5.6.2.3 any part of a glove worn on the batsman’s hand 
holding the bat
 5.6.2.4 any additional materials permitted under 5.4
  shall be regarded as the ball striking or touching the 
bat or being struck by the bat.
 5.7 Bat size limits
 5.7.1 The overall length of the bat, when the lower portion of the 
handle is inserted, shall not be more than 38 in/96.52 cm.
 5.7.2 The blade of the bat shall not exceed the following dimensions:
  Width: 4.25in / 10.8 cm
  Depth: 2.64in / 6.7 cm
  Edges: 1.56in / 4.0cm.
  Furthermore, it should also be able to pass through a bat gauge 
as described in paragraph 1.6 of Appendix B.
 5.7.3 The handle shall not exceed 52% of the overall length of the bat.
 5.7.4 The material permitted for covering the blade in clause 5.4.1 
shall not exceed 0.04 in/0.1 cm in thickness.
 5.7.5 The maximum permitted thickness of protective material placed 
on the toe of the blade is 0.12 in/0.3 cm.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.16 3.17 7.3 The popping crease
  The popping crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, shall 
be in front of and parallel to the bowling crease and shall be 4 ft/1.22 m 
from it. The popping crease shall be marked to a minimum of 15 yards/13.71 
m on either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two 
middle stumps and shall be considered to be unlimited in length.
 7.4 The return creases
  The return creases, which are the inside edges of the crease markings, 
shall be at right angles to the popping crease at a distance of 4 ft 4 
in/1.32 m either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two 
middle stumps. Each return crease shall be marked from the popping 
crease to a minimum of 8 ft/2.44 m behind it and shall be considered to 
be unlimited in length.
 8 THE WICKETS
 8.1 Description, width and pitching
  Two sets of wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other 
in the centres of the bowling creases. Each set shall be 9 in/22.86 cm 
wide and shall consist of three wooden stumps with two wooden bails 
on top. See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
 8.2 Size of stumps
  The tops of the stumps shall be 28 in/71.12 cm above the playing surface 
and shall be dome shaped except for the bail grooves. The portion of 
a stump above the playing surface shall be cylindrical apart from the 
domed top, with circular section of diameter not less than 1.38 in/3.50 
cm nor more than 1.5 in/3.81 cm. See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
  For televised matches the Home Board may provide a slightly larger 
cylindrical stump to accommodate the stump camera. When the larger 
stump is used, all three stumps must be exactly the same size.
 8.3 The bails
 8.3.1 The bails, when in position on top of the stumps,
 - shall not project more than 0.5 in/1.27 cm above them.
	 -		shall	fit	between	the	stumps	without	forcing	them	out	of	 
the vertical.
	 8.3.2	 Each	bail	shall	conform	to	the	following	specifications	(see	
paragraph 2 of Appendix B):
  Overall length 4.31 in/10.95 cm
  Length of barrel 2.13 in /5.40 cm
  Longer spigot 1.38 in/3.50 cm
  Shorter spigot 0.81 in/2.06 cm.
 8.3.3 The two spigots and the barrel shall have the same centre line.
 8.3.4 Devices aimed at protecting player safety by limiting the 
distance that a bail can travel off the stumps will be allowed, 
subject to the approval of the Home Board and the ICC. 6.4 Changing the pitch
	 6.4.1	 If	the	on-field	umpires	decide	that	it	is	dangerous	or	
unreasonable for play to continue on the match pitch, they shall 
stop play and immediately advise the ICC Match Referee.
	 6.4.2	 The	on-field	umpires	and	the	ICC	Match	Referee	shall	then	
consult with both captains.
 6.4.3 If the captains agree to continue, play shall resume.
	 6.4.4	 If	the	decision	is	not	to	resume	play,	the	on-field	umpires	
together with the ICC Match Referee shall consider whether 
the existing pitch can be repaired and the match resumed from 
the point it was stopped. In considering whether to authorise 
such repairs, the ICC Match Referee must consider whether this 
would place either side at an unfair advantage, given the play 
that had already taken place on the dangerous pitch.
 6.4.5 If the decision is that the existing pitch cannot be repaired, then 
the match is to be abandoned as a draw.
	 6.4.6	 If	the	abandonment	occurs	on	the	first	scheduled	day	of	the	
match, the ICC Match Referee shall consult with the Home 
Board	with	the	objective	of	finding	a	way	for	a	new	match	
(including a new nomination of teams and toss) to commence 
on the same date and venue. Such a match may be played 
either on the repaired pitch or on another pitch, subject to the 
ICC Match Referee and the relevant Ground Authority both 
being	satisfied	that	the	new	pitch	will	be	of	the	required	Test	
standard. The playing time lost between the scheduled start 
time of the original match and the actual start time of the new 
match will be covered by the provisions of clause 12.
 6.4.7 If it is not possible to start a new match on the scheduled 
first	day	of	the	original	match,	the	relevant	officials	from	the	
participating Boards shall agree on whether the match can be 
replayed within the existing tour schedule.
 6.4.8  Throughout the above decision making processes, the ICC Match 
Referee shall keep informed both captains and the head of the 
Ground Authority. The head of the Ground Authority shall ensure 
that suitable and prompt public announcements are made.
 6.5 Non-turf pitches
  All Test matches shall be played on natural turf pitches. The use of PVA 
and other adhesives in the preparation of pitches is not permitted.
 7 THE CREASES
 7.1 The creases
  The positions of a bowling crease, a popping crease and two return 
creases shall be marked by white lines, as set out in clauses 7.2, 7.3 and 
7.4, at each end of the pitch. See paragraph 1 of Appendix C.
 7.2 The bowling crease
  The bowling crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, is 
the line that marks the end of the pitch, as in clause 6.1 (Area of pitch). It 
shall be 8 ft 8 in/2.64 m in length.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.18 3.19 9.1.6 The umpires may instruct the Ground Authority to use any 
available equipment, including any roller for the purpose of 
drying	the	pitch	and	making	it	fit	for	play.
 9.1.7 An absorbent roller may be used to remove water from the 
covers including the cover on the match pitch.
 9.2 Clearing debris from the pitch
 9.2.1 The pitch shall be cleared of any debris
 9.2.1.1  before the start of each day’s play. This shall be after 
the completion of mowing and before any rolling, not 
earlier than 30 minutes nor later than 10 minutes before 
the time or any rescheduled time for start of play.
 9.2.1.2 between innings. This shall precede rolling if any is to 
take place.
 9.2.1.3 at all intervals for meals.
 9.2.2 The clearance of debris in clause 9.2.1 shall be done by sweeping, 
except where the umpires consider that this may be detrimental 
to the surface of the pitch. In this case the debris must be 
cleared from that area by hand, without sweeping.
 9.2.3 In addition to clause 9.2.1, debris may be cleared from the pitch 
by hand, without sweeping, before mowing and whenever 
either umpire considers it necessary.
 9.3 Mowing
 9.3.1 Responsibility for mowing
 9.3.1.1 All mowings which are carried out before the 
match shall be the sole responsibility of the Ground 
Authority.
 9.3.1.2 All subsequent mowings shall be carried out under 
the supervision of the umpires.
	 9.3.2	 The	pitch	and	outfield
  In order that throughout the match the ground conditions 
should be as nearly the same for both sides as possible, both the 
pitch	and	the	outfield	shall	be	mown	on	each	day	of	the	match	
on which play is expected to take place, if ground and weather 
conditions permit.
  If, for reasons other than conditions of ground or weather, 
complete	mowing	of	the	outfield	is	not	possible,	the	Ground	
Authority shall notify the captains and umpires of the procedure 
to be adopted for such mowing during the match.
 9.3.3 Timing of mowing
 9.3.3.1 Mowing of the pitch on any day shall be completed 
not later than 30 minutes before the time scheduled 
or rescheduled for play to begin on that day, before 
any sweeping prior to rolling. If necessary, debris may 
be removed from the pitch before mowing, by hand, 
without sweeping. See clause 9.2.3. 8.4 Dispensing with bails
  The umpires may agree to dispense with the use of bails, if necessary. 
If they so agree then no bails shall be used at either end. The use of 
bails shall be resumed as soon as conditions permit. See clause 29.4 
(Dispensing with bails).
 8.5 LED Wickets
  The use of approved LED Wickets is permitted. Refer also to paragraphs 
3.8.1.6 and 4.2 of Appendix D.
 9 PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PLAYING AREA
 9.1 Rolling
  The pitch shall not be rolled during the match except as permitted in 
clauses 9.1.1 and 9.1.2.
 9.1.1 Frequency and duration of rolling
  During the match the pitch may be rolled at the request of 
the captain of the batting side, for a period of not more than 
7	minutes,	before	the	start	of	each	innings,	other	than	the	first	
innings of the match, and before the start of each subsequent 
day’s play. See clause 9.1.4.
 9.1.2 Rolling after a delayed start
  In addition to the rolling permitted above, if, after the toss and 
before	the	first	innings	of	the	match,	the	start	is	delayed,	the	
captain of the batting side may request that the pitch be rolled 
for not more than 7 minutes. However, if the umpires together 
agree	that	the	delay	has	had	no	significant	effect	on	the	state	of	
the pitch, they shall refuse such request for rolling of the pitch.
 9.1.3 Choice of rollers
  If there is more than one roller available the captain of the 
batting side shall choose which one is to be used.
 9.1.4 Timing of permitted rolling
  The rolling permitted (maximum 7 minutes) before play begins 
on any day shall be started not more than 30 minutes before the 
time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin. The captain of 
the batting side may, however, delay the start of such rolling 
until not less than 10 minutes before the time scheduled or 
rescheduled for play to begin.
  The following shall apply in addition to clause 9.1:
	 9.1.5	 Prior	to	the	scheduled	time	for	the	toss,	the	artificial	drying	of	
the	pitch	and	outfield	shall	be	at	the	discretion	of	the	Ground	
Authority. Thereafter and throughout the match the drying 
of	the	outfield	may	be	undertaken	at	any	time	by	the	Ground	
Authority, but the drying of the affected area of the pitch 
shall be carried out only on the instructions and under the 
supervision of the umpires. The umpires shall be empowered to 
have the pitch dried without reference to the captains at any 
time	they	are	of	the	opinion	that	it	is	unfit	for	play.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.20 3.21 9.9 Protection and preparation of adjacent pitches during matches
  The protection (by way of an appropriate cover) and preparation of 
pitches which are adjacent to the match pitch will be permitted during 
the match subject to the following:
 9.9.1 Such measures will only be possible if requested by the Ground 
Authority and approved by the umpires before the start of  
the match.
 9.9.2 Approval should only be granted where such measures are 
unavoidable and will not compromise the safety of the players 
or their ability to execute their actions with complete freedom.
 9.9.3 The preparation work shall be carried out under the supervision 
of the fourth umpire.
 9.9.4 Any necessary watering shall be carried out only to the extent 
necessary for such preparations and shall not be permitted in 
circumstances which may in any way affect the match pitch.
 9.9.5 The consent of the captains is not required but the umpires shall 
advise both captains and the ICC Match Referee before the start 
of the match on what has been agreed.
 10 COVERING THE PITCH
 10.1 Before the match
  The use of covers before the match is the responsibility of the Ground 
Authority and may include full covering if required.
  The pitch shall be entirely protected against rain up to the 
commencement of play.
  However, the Ground Authority shall grant suitable facility to the 
captains to inspect the pitch before the nomination of their players 
and to the umpires to discharge their duties as laid down in clauses 
2 (The umpires), 6 (The pitch), 7 (The creases), 8 (The wickets), and 9 
(Preparation and maintenance of the playing area).
 10.2 During the match
  The pitch shall be entirely protected against rain up to the commencement 
of play each day, and for the duration of the period of the match. It shall 
be wholly covered at the termination of each day’s play or providing the 
weather	is	fine,	within	a	period	of	two	hours	thereafter.
  The covers must totally protect the pitch and also the pitch 
surroundings, to a minimum of 5 metres either side of the pitch, and any 
worn	or	soft	areas	in	the	outfield.
  The bowlers’ run-ups shall be covered during inclement weather, in 
order to keep them dry, to a distance of at least 10 x 10 metres.
 10.3 Removal of covers
  All covers (including “hessian” or “scrim” covers used to protect the pitch 
against the sun) shall be removed not later than 2 ½ hours before the 
scheduled start of play provided it is not raining at the time, but the pitch 
will be covered again if rain falls prior to the commencement of play.	 9.3.3.2	 Mowing	of	the	outfield	on	any	day	shall	be	completed	
not later than 15 minutes before the time scheduled 
or rescheduled for play to begin on that day.
 9.4 Watering the pitch
  The pitch shall not be watered during the match.
 9.5 Re-marking creases
  Creases shall be re-marked whenever either umpire considers  
it necessary.
 9.6 Maintenance of footholes
  The umpires shall ensure that the holes made by the bowlers and 
batsmen are cleaned out and dried whenever necessary to facilitate play.
	 	 The	umpires	shall	allow,	if	necessary,	the	returfing	of	footholes	made	by	
the	bowlers	in	their	delivery	strides,	or	the	use	of	quick-setting	fillings	
for the same purpose.
  In addition, the umpires shall see that wherever possible and whenever 
it is considered necessary, action is taken during all intervals in play to 
do whatever is practicable to improve the bowler’s footholes. As soon 
as possible after the conclusion of each day’s play, bowler’s footholes 
will be repaired.
 9.7 Securing of footholds and maintenance of pitch
  During play, umpires shall allow the players to secure their footholds by 
the use of sawdust provided that no damage to the pitch is caused and 
that clause 41 (Unfair play) is not contravened.
	 9.8	 Watering	the	outfield
	 	 The	watering	of	the	outfield	will	be	permitted	during	the	match	subject	
to the following:
 9.8.1 Such watering shall only be possible if the “watering plan” 
is requested by the Ground Authority and approved by the 
umpires before the match has started. Once the match has 
started, any such request will not be considered.
 9.8.2 The consent of the captains is not required, but the umpires 
shall advise both captains and the ICC Match Referee before the 
start of the match on what has been agreed.
 9.8.3 The watering shall occur as soon as possible after the conclusion 
of the day’s play.
 9.8.4 The watering shall only be carried out to the extent that it is 
necessary	to	retain	the	good	condition	of	the	outfield.
 9.8.5 The square and bowlers’ run ups will be adequately covered 
prior to any watering taking place.
 9.8.6 All ongoing matters of interpretation and implementation 
of watering requirements and regulations shall be resolved 
between the umpires and Ground Authority, but with the 
umpires retaining ultimate discretion over whether to approve 
any watering.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.22 3.23 11.3.3 if a captain declares an innings closed during any interval other 
than an interval for drinks, provided that at least 10 minutes 
remains of the interval, the interval shall be of the agreed 
duration and shall be considered to include the 10 minute 
interval between innings. If less than 10 minutes remains of the 
interval when the captain declares the innings closed, or forfeits 
an innings, the interval shall be extended as necessary and the 
next innings shall commence 10 minutes after the declaration or 
forfeiture is made.
 11.4 Changing agreed times of intervals
  If, at any time during the match,
  either playing time is lost through adverse conditions of ground, 
 weather or light or in exceptional circumstances,
	 	 or	 the	players	have	occasion	to	leave	the	field	other	than	at	a 
 scheduled interval,
  the time of the lunch interval or of the tea interval may be changed if the 
two umpires and both captains so agree, providing the requirements of 
clauses 11.2 and 11.5, 11.6,11.7 and 11.8.3 are not contravened.
 11.5 Changing agreed time for lunch interval
 11.5.1 If an innings ends when 10 minutes or less remains before the 
agreed time for lunch, the interval shall be taken immediately. 
It shall be of the agreed duration and shall be considered to 
include the 10 minute interval between innings.
 11.5.2 If because of adverse conditions of ground, weather or light, 
or in exceptional circumstances, a stoppage occurs when 10 
minutes or less remains before the agreed time for lunch, then, 
whether or not agreement is reached in the circumstances of 
clause 11.4, the interval shall be taken immediately. It shall be of 
the agreed duration. Play shall resume at the end of this interval 
or as soon after as conditions permit.
	 11.5.3	 If	the	players	have	occasion	to	leave	the	field	for	any	reason	
when more than 10 minutes remains before the agreed time for 
lunch then, unless the umpires and captains together agree to 
alter it, lunch shall be taken at the agreed time.
 11.6 Changing agreed time for tea interval
 11.6.1 If an innings ends when 30 minutes or less remains before the 
agreed time for tea, the interval shall be taken immediately. 
It shall be of the agreed duration and shall be considered to 
include the 10 minute interval between innings.
 11.6.2 If, when 30 minutes remains before the agreed time for tea, 
an interval between innings is already in progress, play shall 
resume at the end of the 10 minute interval, if conditions permit. 11 INTERVALS
 11.1 An interval
 11.1.1 The following shall be classed as intervals.
 - The period between close of play on one day and the start of 
the next day’s play.
 -  Intervals between innings.
 -  Intervals for meals.
 -  Intervals for drinks.
 -  Any other agreed interval.
 11.1.2 Only these intervals shall be considered as scheduled breaks for 
the purposes of clause 24.2.6.
 11.2 Duration of intervals
 11.2.1 An interval for lunch or tea shall be of the duration detailed 
below, taken from the call of Time before the interval until the 
call of Play on resumption after the interval.
 11.2.1.1 Lunch Interval: The interval shall be of 40 minutes 
duration.
 11.2.1.2  Tea Interval: The interval shall be of 20 minutes duration.
 11.2.1.3 Home Boards, with the consent of the visiting 
Board, may seek the approval of the ICC to amend 
the duration of these two intervals, provided the 
combined scheduled duration of the two intervals 
shall be equal to 60 minutes.
 11.2.2 An interval between innings shall be 10 minutes, commencing 
from the close of an innings until the call of Play for the start of 
the next innings. See, however, clauses 11.3, 11.5 and 11.6.
 11.3 Allowance for interval between innings
  In addition to the provisions of clauses 11.5 and 11.6,
 11.3.1 if an innings ends when 10 minutes or less remains before the 
time agreed for close of play, or when there are less than 2 
overs remaining to complete the minimum over requirement on 
any day, whichever is applicable, there shall be no further play 
on that day. No change shall be made to the time for the start of 
play on the following day on account of the 10 minute interval 
between innings.
 11.3.2 if a captain declares an innings closed during an interruption in 
play of more than 10 minutes duration, provided that at least 
10 minutes remains of the interruption, no adjustment shall be 
made to the time for resumption of play on account of the 10 
minute interval between innings, which shall be considered as 
included in the interruption. If less than 10 minutes remains of 
the interruption when the captain declares the innings closed, 
or forfeits an innings, the next innings shall commence 10 
minutes after the declaration or forfeiture is made.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.24 3.25 11.8.2 A drinks interval shall be taken at the end of the over in 
progress when the agreed time is reached. If, however, a wicket 
falls or a batsman retires within 5 minutes of the agreed time 
then drinks shall be taken immediately.
  No other variation in the timing of drinks intervals shall be 
permitted except as provided for in clause 11.8.3.
	 11.8.3	 If	an	innings	ends	or	the	players	have	to	leave	the	field	of	play	
for any other reason within 30 minutes of the agreed time 
for a drinks interval, the umpires and captains together may 
rearrange the timing of drinks intervals in that session.
 11.8.4 Intervals for drinks may not be taken during the last hour of the 
match,	as	defined	in	clause	12.6	(Last	hour	of	match	–	number	of	
overs). Subject to this limitation, the captains and umpires shall 
agree the times for such intervals, if any, before the toss and on 
each subsequent day not later than 10 minutes before play is 
scheduled to start.
 11.9 Agreement to forgo intervals
  At any time during the match, the captains may agree to forgo any of 
the drinks intervals. The umpires shall be informed of the decision.
  When play is in progress, the batsmen at the wicket may deputise for their 
captain in making an agreement to forgo a drinks interval in that session.
 11.10 Scorers to be informed
  The umpires shall ensure that the scorers are informed of all agreements 
about hours of play and intervals and of any changes made thereto as 
permitted under this clause.
 12 START OF PLAY; CESSATION OF PLAY
 12.1 Call of Play
	 	 The	bowler’s	end	umpire	shall	call	Play	before	the	first	ball	of	the	match	
and on the resumption of play after any interval or interruption.
 12.2 Call of Time
  The bowler’s end umpire shall call Time, when the ball is dead, at the 
end of any session of play or as required by these Playing Conditions. 
See also clause 20.3 (Call of Over or Time).
 12.3 Removal of bails
  After the call of Time, the bails shall be removed from both wickets.
 12.4 Starting a new over
  Another over shall always be started at any time during the match, 
unless an interval is to be taken in the circumstances set out in clause 
12.5.2, if the umpire, walking at normal pace, has arrived at the position 
behind the stumps at the bowler’s end before the time agreed for the 
next interval, or for the close of play, has been reached. 11.6.3 If, because of adverse conditions of ground, weather or light, 
or in exceptional circumstances, a stoppage occurs when 30 
minutes or less remains before the agreed time for tea, then 
unless there is an agreement to change the time for tea, as 
permitted in clause 11.4, the interval shall be taken immediately. 
The interval shall be of the agreed duration. Play shall resume at 
the end of the interval or as soon after as conditions permit.
 11.6.4 If a stoppage is already in progress when 30 minutes remains 
before the agreed time for tea, clause 11.4 shall apply.
 11.7 Lunch or tea interval – 9 wickets down
  For the lunch interval and for the tea interval
 If either, 9 wickets are already down when 3 minutes remains to 
the  scheduled time for the interval,
  or, the 9th wicket falls within this 3 minutes, or at any time up to 
and	including	the	final	ball	of	the	over	in	progress	at	the	
scheduled time for the interval,
  then the provisions of clause 12.5.2 shall not apply and the interval will 
not be taken until the end of the over that is in progress 30 minutes 
after the originally agreed time for the interval, unless the players have 
cause	to	leave	the	field	of	play	or	the	innings	is	completed	earlier.
  However, if at the conclusion of this additional 30 minutes, if a small 
number of runs are required to win the match, and both captains 
wish	to	continue	playing	in	order	to	achieve	a	definite	result,	play	will	
continue until either the match concludes or the players have cause to 
leave	the	field	for	any	other	reason.
  For the purposes of this section of the Playing Conditions, the 
retirement of a batsman is not to be considered equivalent to the fall of 
a wicket.
 11.8 Intervals for drinks
 11.8.1 Drinks intervals shall be scheduled. Each interval shall be kept as 
short as possible and in any case shall not exceed 4 minutes.
 11.8.1.1 There shall be one drinks interval during each session 
of play, scheduled at the mid-point of the session.
 11.8.1.2 Under conditions of extreme heat the umpires may 
permit extra intervals for drinks during each session.
 11.8.1.3 An individual player may be given a drink either on 
the boundary edge or at the fall of a wicket, on the 
field,	provided	that	no	playing	time	is	wasted.	No	
other	drinks	shall	be	taken	onto	the	field	without	the	
permission of the umpires. Any player taking drinks 
onto	the	field	shall	be	dressed	in	proper	cricket	attire	
(subject	to	the	wearing	of	bibs	–	refer	to	the	note	in	
clause 24.1.4).ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.26 3.27 12.7.1.2 On the last day, a minimum of 75 overs (or a minimum 
of 15 overs per hour) shall be bowled during the 
playing time other than the last hour of the match 
where clause 12.7.6 below shall apply. If any of the 
minimum of 75 overs, or as recalculated, have not been 
bowled when one hour of the scheduled playing time 
remains, the last hour of the match for the purposes of 
clause 12.7.6 shall be the hour immediately following 
the completion of these overs.
 12.7.2 Reduction in minimum overs
  Except in the last hour of the match, for which clause 12.7.6 
makes provision, if play is suspended due to adverse weather 
or light or any other reason (other than normal intervals) for 
more than 1 hour on any day, the minimum number of overs shall 
be reduced by 1 over for each full 4 minutes of the aggregate 
playing time lost. For the avoidance of doubt, the aggregate of 1 
hour shall be inclusive of any time that may have been brought 
forward from previous days due to playing time lost on such 
previous days under clause 12.7.3.2 below.
 12.7.3 Making Up Lost Time
 12.7.3.1 On The Day
  Subject to weather and light, except in the last hour 
of the match, in the event of play being suspended 
for any reason other than normal intervals, the playing 
time on that day shall be extended by the amount of 
time lost up to a maximum of 1 hour. For the avoidance 
of doubt, the maximum of 1 hour shall be inclusive of 
any time that may have been added to the scheduled 
playing time due to playing time having been lost on 
previous days under clause 12.7.3.2 below.
 12.7.3.2 On Subsequent Days
  If any time is lost and cannot be made up under clause 
12.7.3.1 above, additional time of up to a maximum of 
30 minutes per day shall be added to the scheduled 
playing hours for the next day, and subsequent day(s) 
as required (to make up as much lost time as possible). 
Where appropriate this additional time shall be added 
prior	to	the	scheduled	start	of	the	first	session.	In 	
circumstances where it is not possible to add this 
additional time prior to the scheduled start of the 
first	session,	the	additional	time	may	be	added	to	the 	
second and/or the third sessions (see also clause 12.7.4). 
When such additional time is added, the minimum overs 
for that day shall be increased by one over for each four 
minutes of additional time or part thereof. 12.5 Completion of an over
  Other than at the end of the match,
 12.5.1 if the agreed time for an interval is reached during an over, the 
over shall be completed before the interval is taken, except as 
provided for in clause 12.5.2.
 12.5.2 when less than 3 minutes remains before the time agreed for 
the next interval, the interval shall be taken immediately if:
  either a batsman is dismissed or retires; or
	 	 the	players	have	occasion	to	leave	the	field,
  whether this occurs during an over or at the end of an over. 
Except at the end of an innings, if an over is thus interrupted it 
shall be completed on the resumption of play.
 12.6 Conclusion of match
 12.6.1 The match is concluded
	 12.6.1.1	 as	soon	as	a	result	as	defined	in	clauses	16.1	to	16.5	
(The result) is reached.
 12.6.1.2 as soon as both
  the minimum number of overs for the last hour are 
completed
  and the agreed time for close of play is reached,
  unless a result is reached earlier.
 12.6.2 The match is concluded if, without a conclusion having been 
reached	under	12.6.1,	the	players	leave	the	field	for	adverse	
conditions of ground, weather or light, or in exceptional 
circumstances, and no further play is possible.
 12.7 Hours of Play; Minimum Overs Requirement
  The Home Board shall determine the hours of play, subject to there 
being 6 hours scheduled play per day, and subject to:
 12.7.1 Minimum Overs in the Day
  Subject to clause 12.7.2 below:
 12.7.1.1 On days other than the last day, play shall continue 
on each day until the completion of a minimum target 
of 90 overs (or a minimum of 15 overs per hour) or 
the completion of the scheduled or rescheduled 
cessation time, whichever is the later but provided 
that play shall not continue for more than 30 minutes 
beyond the scheduled or rescheduled cessation time 
(permitted overtime). For the sake of clarity, if any of 
the minimum target number of overs have not been 
bowled at the completion of the permitted overtime, 
play shall cease upon completion of the over in 
progress. The overs not bowled shall not be made up 
on any subsequent day.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.28 3.29 12.7.6 Last Hour
  A minimum of 15 overs shall be bowled in the last hour and all 
calculations with regard to suspensions of play or the start of 
a new innings shall be based on 1 over for each full 4 minutes 
(refer to clause 12.7.9 below).
	 	 On	the	final	day,	if	both	captains	(the	batsmen	at	the	wicket	
may act for their captain) accept that there is no prospect of 
either	side	achieving	a	victory,	they	may	agree	to	finish	the	
match after (a) the time for the commencement of the last hour 
has been reached OR (b) there are a minimum of 15 overs to be 
bowled, whichever is the later.
 12.7.7 Notwithstanding any other provision, there shall be no further 
play on any day, other than the last day, if a wicket falls or a 
batsman	retires	or	if	the	players	have	occasion	to	leave	the	field	
during the last minimum over within 3 minutes of the scheduled 
cessation time or thereafter. This shall also apply to the 
additional time permitted in order to complete the minimum 
over requirement for the day. If an over is interrupted in these 
circumstances stumps shall be drawn for the day and the over 
shall be completed on the resumption of play.
 12.7.8 An over completed on resumption of a new day’s play shall be 
disregarded in calculating minimum overs for that day.
 12.7.9 Stumps Drawn
	 	 Except	on	the	final	day:
 12.7.9.1 In the event of play being suspended for any 
reason at or after the most recently scheduled or 
rescheduled cessation time, stumps shall be drawn 
upon play being suspended.
 12.7.9.2 In the event of the players already being off the 
field	for	a	suspension	of	play	at	the	most	recently	
rescheduled cessation time, then stumps will be 
drawn at that time.
 12.7.10 The scoreboard shall show:
 12.7.10.1 the total number of overs bowled with the ball 
currently in use: and
 12.7.10.2 the minimum number of overs remaining to be 
bowled in a day.
 12.7.11 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates (refer to the ICC Code 
of Conduct and see clause 12.9 below).
 12.7.12 Day-Night Tests
  Home Boards may, prior to the commencement of a Test, and 
with the agreement of the Visiting Board, seek the approval 
of the ICC to play the match as a day/night Test. In such a case 
the hours of play shall be determined by agreement between 
the Home Board and the Visiting Board subject to there being 6 
hours scheduled play per day. 12.7.3.3 On the Last Day only (refer to Appendix E)
  Clause 12.7.3.1 applies. However, for the purposes of 
this	clause,	the	definition	of	playing	time	shall	exclude	
the last hour. No time is made up in respect of any 
interruptions that commence after the start of the 
last hour.
  Should play be interrupted prior to the last hour 
being signalled, the playing time lost will be made up 
(subject to the maximum of 1 hour described in (a) 
above) with the previously scheduled time for the 
last	hour	being	updated	to	reflect	the	time	made	up	
during this interruption.
  In order to determine the minimum overs to be 
bowled prior to the last hour and the rescheduled 
starting time for the last hour, it is necessary to 
complete the template in Appendix E.
 12.7.3.4  For Day/Night Test matches, the participating teams 
may agree on the following:
 - The maximum amount of make-up time to be used 
on the day up to no more than 1 hour;
 - The maximum make-up time to be added to 
subsequent days up to no more than 30 minutes 
per day; and
 - When the make-up time is to be allocated across 
subsequent days.
 12.7.4 Change of Intervals
 12.7.4.1 If play has been suspended for any reason other than 
normal intervals for 30 minutes or more prior to the 
commencement of the scheduled or rescheduled tea 
interval on that day, the tea interval shall be delayed 
for 30 minutes.
 12.7.4.2 Notwithstanding the provisions of clause 
12.7.4.1above, the timings of intervals can be altered 
under clause 11.4 at any time on any day if playing 
time has been lost irrespective of whether the time 
has been lost on that day or on any previous days.
 12.7.5 Change of Innings
  Where there is a change of innings during a day’s play (except 
where the change of innings occurs at lunch or tea or when play 
is suspended for any reason) 2 overs will be deducted from the 
minimum number of overs to be bowled.
  The over in progress at the end of an innings is regarded as a 
completed over for the purposes of determining the minimum 
number of remaining overs to be bowled in the day, except 
when the change of innings occurs in the last hour of the match 
(see clause 12.12.3).ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.30 3.31 12.9 Minimum Over Rates
 12.9.1 The minimum over rate to be achieved in World Test 
Championship Matches shall be 15 overs per hour.
 12.9.2 The actual over rate shall be calculated at the end of the match 
by the umpires and shall be the average rate which is achieved 
by	the	fielding	team	across	both	of	the	batting	team’s	innings.
 12.9.3 In calculating the actual over rate for the match, allowances will 
be given as follows:
 12.9.3.1  The time lost as a result of treatment given to a player 
by	an	authorised	medical	personnel	on	the	field	of	play;
 12.9.3.2 The time lost as a result of a player being required to 
leave	the	field	as	a	result	of	a	serious	injury;
 12.9.3.3 The time taken for all third umpire referrals and 
consultations and any umpire or player reviews;
 12.9.3.4 The time lost as a result of time wasting by the 
batting side; and
 12.9.3.5 The time lost due to all other circumstances that are 
beyond	the	control	of	the	fielding	side.
 12.9.3.6 2 minutes per wicket taken, provided that such wicket 
results in the subsequent batsmen immediately 
commencing his innings. For the avoidance of any 
doubt, no time allowance will be given for the 
final	wicket	of	an	innings	or	where	a	wicket	falls	
immediately prior to any interval;
 12.9.3.7 4 minutes per drinks break taken.
 12.9.4 The following conditions shall also be factored into the over 
rate calculation at the end of the match:
	 12.9.4.1	 if	the	fielding	team	bowls	out	the	batting	team	in	60 	
overs or less in any particular innings and the Minimum 
Over Rate requirement for that innings has not been 
exceeded (taking into account all of the time allowances 
described above), no account shall be taken of the 
actual over rate in that innings when calculating the 
actual over rate at the end of such Match.
	 12.9.4.2	 if	the	fielding	team	bowls	out	the	batting	team	twice	
and has not completed more than 120 overs in total 
across	both	of	its	fielding	innings,	no	sanction	may	be	
imposed in respect of a breach of clause 12.9.1.
	 12.9.4.3	 if	the	fielding	team	has	not	completed	more	than	
60 overs in a Match, no sanction may be imposed in 
respect of a breach of clause 12.9.1.
	 12.9.5	 The	current	over	rate	of	the	fielding	team	(+/-	overs	compared	
to the minimum rate required), shall be advised by the third 
umpire every 30 minutes as a minimum, and shall be displayed 
on a scoreboard or replay screen at regular intervals. 12.8 Extra Time
 12.8.1 At the End of the Day
  The umpires may decide to play 30 minutes (a minimum of 8 
overs) extra time at the end of any day (other than the last day) 
if requested by either captain if, in the umpires opinion, it would 
bring	about	a	definite	result	on	that	day.	This	is	in	addition	to	
the additional time provided for in clause 12.7.3 above. If the 
umpires do not believe a result can be achieved no extra time 
shall be allowed.
  If it is decided to play such extra time on one or more of these 
days, the whole period shall be played out even though the 
possibility	of	finishing	the	match	may	have	disappeared	before	
the full period has expired.
  If at the conclusion of this extra time, a small number of runs are 
required to win the match and both captains wish to continue 
playing	in	order	to	achieve	a	definite	result	on	that	day,	play	will	
continue until either the match concludes or the players have 
cause	to	leave	the	field	for	any	other	reason.
  Only the actual amount of playing time by which play is 
extended on any day shall be deducted from the total number 
of hours of play remaining, and the match shall end earlier 
on	the	final	day	by	the	amount	of	time	by	which	play	was	
previously extended under this clause.
 12.8.2 At the Lunch or Tea Interval
  The umpires may decide to extend play by 15 minutes (a minimum 
of four overs) at the scheduled lunch or tea interval of any day if 
requested by either captain if, in the umpires’ opinion, it would 
bring	about	a	definite	result	in	that	session.	If	the	umpires	do	not 	
believe a result can be achieved no extra time shall be allowed.
  If it is decided to extend play, the whole period shall be played 
out	even	though	the	possibility	of	finishing	the	match	may	have	
disappeared before the full period has expired.
  If at the conclusion of this extra time, a small number of runs 
are required to win the match and both captains wish to 
continue	playing	in	order	to	achieve	a	definite	result	prior	to	
the scheduled interval, play will continue until either the match 
concludes	or	the	players	have	cause	to	leave	the	field	for	any	
other reason.
  The following session of play shall be reduced by the amount of 
time by which play was previously extended under this clause.
 12.8.3  For the avoidance of doubt, clause 11.7 shall still apply subsequent 
to the application of this clause, i.e when 9 wickets are down 
following the extra 15 minutes. However, this clause shall not 
apply when clause 11.7 has already been applied, i.e. the 15 
minutes shall not be added at the end of 30 minutes extra time.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.32 3.33 12.12.2 If the innings ends after the last hour has started, two 
calculations are to be made, as set out in clauses 12.12.3 and 
12.12.4. The greater of the numbers yielded by these two 
calculations is to be the minimum number of overs to be 
bowled in the new innings.
 12.12.3 Calculation based on overs remaining:
 -  At the conclusion of the innings, the number of overs that 
remain to be bowled, of the minimum in the last hour, to  
be noted.
 -  If this is not a whole number it is to be rounded up to the 
next whole number.
 -  Two overs, for the interval, to be deducted from the resulting 
number to determine the number of overs still to be bowled.
 12.12.4 Calculation based on time remaining:
 -  At the conclusion of the innings, the time remaining until the 
agreed time for close of play to be noted.
 -  10 minutes, for the interval, to be deducted from this time to 
determine the Playing time remaining.
 -  A calculation to be made of one over for every complete  
4 minutes of the Playing time remaining, plus one more over 
if a further part of 4 minutes remains.
 12.13 Completion of last over of match
	 	 The	over	in	progress	at	the	close	of	play	on	the	final	day	shall	be	
completed unless
  either a result has been reached; or
	 	 the	players	have	occasion	to	leave	the	field.	In	this	case	there	shall	be	no	
resumption of play except in the circumstances of clause 16.7 (Mistakes 
in scoring) and the match shall be at an end.
 12.14 Bowler unable to complete an over during last hour of match
  If, for any reason, a bowler is unable to complete an over during the last 
hour, clause 17.8 (Bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over) 
shall apply. The separate parts of such an over shall count as one over of 
the minimum to be bowled.
 13 INNINGS
 13.1 Number of innings
 13.1.1 A match shall be two innings for each side.
 13.2 Alternate innings
  Each side shall take their innings alternately except in the cases 
provided for in clause 14 (The follow-on) or in clause 15.2 (Forfeiture of 
an innings).  12.9.6 If, at the end of the match, the over rate calculation determines 
that a team has bowled one or more overs less than the 
minimum over rate requirement, that team will incur one 
Penalty Over for each full over the team falls short of its 
minimum over rate required in a match.
 12.9.7 A team will have two (2) World Test Championship competition 
points deducted from its points total for each Penalty Over it 
incurs during the Round Stage.
 12.10 Last hour of match – number of overs
  The bowler’s end umpire shall indicate the commencement of this 15 
overs to the players and to the scorers. The period of play thereafter 
shall be referred to as the last hour, whatever its actual duration.
  During an uninterrupted last hour, play will continue until the end of the 
over in progress when 60 minutes have been played, or until 15 overs 
have been bowled, whichever is later.
 12.11 Last hour of match – interruptions of play
  If there is an interruption in play during the last hour of the match,  
the minimum number of overs to be bowled shall be reduced from  
15 as follows:
 12.11.1 The time lost for an interruption is counted from the call of Time 
until the time for resumption as decided by the umpires.
 12.11.2 One over shall be deducted for every complete 4 minutes of 
time lost.
 12.11.3 In the case of more than one such interruption, the minutes lost 
shall not be aggregated; the calculation shall be made for each 
interruption separately.
 12.11.4 If, when one hour of Playing time remains, an interruption is 
already in progress
 12.11.4.1 only the time lost after this moment shall be counted 
in the calculation.
 12.11.4.2 the over in progress at the start of the interruption 
shall be completed on resumption and shall not count 
as one of the minimum number of overs to be bowled.
 12.11.5 If, after the start of the last hour, an interruption 
occurs during an over, the over shall be completed on 
resumption of play. The two part-overs shall between 
them count as one over of the minimum number to  
be bowled.
 12.12 Last hour of match – intervals between innings
  If an innings ends so that a new innings is to be started during the last 
hour of the match, the interval starts with the end of the innings and is 
to end 10 minutes later.
 12.12.1  If this interval is already in progress at the start of the last hour 
then, to determine the number of overs to be bowled in the new 
innings, calculations are to be made as set out in clause 12.11.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.34 3.35 15 DECLARATION AND FORFEITURE
 15.1 Time of declaration
  The captain of the side batting may declare an innings closed, when the 
ball is dead, at any time during the innings. A declared innings shall be 
considered to be a completed innings.
 15.2 Forfeiture of an innings
  A captain may forfeit either of his side’s innings at any time before the 
commencement of that innings. A forfeited innings shall be considered 
to be a completed innings.
	 15.3	 Notification
  A captain shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires of any 
decision	to	declare	or	to	forfeit	an	innings.	Once	notified,	the	decision	
cannot be changed.
 16 THE RESULT
 16.1 A Win 
  The side which has scored a total of runs in excess of that scored in the two 
completed innings of the opposing side shall win the match. See clause 13.3 
(Completed innings). Note also clause 16.4 (Winning hit or extras).
 16.2 ICC Match Referee awarding a match
 16.2.1 A match shall be lost by a side which either
 16.2.1.1 concedes defeat or
 16.2.1.2 in the opinion of the ICC Match Referee refuses to 
play and the ICC Match Referee shall award the match 
to the other side.
 16.2.2 If an umpire considers that an action by any player or players 
might constitute a refusal by either side to play then the 
umpires together shall inform the ICC Match Referee of this 
fact. The ICC Match Referee shall together with the umpires 
ascertain the cause of the action. If the ICC Match Referee, 
after due consultation with the umpires, then decides that this 
action does constitute a refusal to play by one side, he/she 
shall so inform the captain of that side. If the captain persists 
in the action the ICC Match Referee shall award the match in 
accordance with clause 16.2.1.2 above.
 16.2.3 If action as in clause 16.2.2 above takes place after play has 
started and does not constitute a refusal to play:
 16.2.3.1  Playing time lost shall be counted from the start of the 
action until play recommences, subject to intervals 
(clause 11) and suspensions of play (clause 2.8).
 16.2.3.2 the time for close of play on that day shall be 
extended by this length of time, subject to clause 2.8 
(Suspension of play in dangerous and unreasonable 
conditions) and the provisions of clause 12.7. 13.3 Completed innings
  A side’s innings is to be considered as completed if any of the  
following applies
 13.3.1 the side is all out.
 13.3.2  at the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batsman, further balls 
remain to be bowled but no further batsman is available to come in.
 13.3.3 the captain declares the innings closed.
 13.3.4 the captain forfeits the innings.
 13.4 The toss
	 	 The	captains	shall	toss	a	coin	for	the	choice	of	innings,	on	the	field	of	
play and under the supervision of the ICC Match Referee, not earlier 
than 30 minutes, nor later than 15 minutes before the scheduled or any 
rescheduled time for the start of play. Note, however, the provisions of 
clause 1.3 (Captain).
	 13.5	 Decision	to	be	notified
  As soon as the toss is completed, the captain of the side winning the 
toss	shall	decide	whether	to	bat	or	to	field	and	shall	notify	the	opposing	
captain	and	the	umpires	of	this	decision.	Once	notified,	the	decision	
cannot be changed.
 13.6 Duration of Match 
	 	 Matches	shall	be	of	five	days	scheduled	duration.
 14 THE FOLLOW-ON
	 14.1	 Lead	on	first	innings
	 14.1.1	 The	side	which	bats	first	and	leads	by	at	least	200	runs	shall	have 	
the option of requiring the other side to follow their innings.
 14.1.2 The same option shall be available in matches of shorter 
duration with the minimum leads as follows:
 -  150 runs in a match of 3 or 4 days;
 -  100 runs in a 2-day match;
 -  75 runs in a 1-day match.
	 14.2	 Notification
  A captain shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires of his 
intention	to	take	up	this	option.	Once	notified,	the	decision	cannot	  
be changed.
 14.3 First day’s play lost
	 	 If	no	play	takes	place	on	the	first	day	of	a	match,	14.1	shall	apply	in	
accordance with the number of days remaining from the start of play. 
The	day	on	which	play	first	commences	shall	count	as	a	whole	day	for	
this purpose, irrespective of the time at which play starts.
	 	 Play	will	have	taken	place	as	soon	as,	after	the	call	of	Play,	the	first	over	
has started. See clause 17.2 (Start of an over).ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.36 3.37 16.7 Mistakes in scoring
	 	 If,	after	the	players	and	umpires	have	left	the	field	in	the	belief	that	
the match has been concluded, the umpires discover that a mistake in 
scoring has occurred which affects the result then, subject to clause 
16.8, they shall adopt the following procedure.
	 16.7.1	 If,	when	the	players	leave	the	field,	the	side	batting	last	has	not	
completed its innings and:
  either the number of overs to be bowled in the last hour, or in 
that innings, has not been completed; or
  the agreed time for close of play, or for the end of the innings, 
has not been reached,
  then, unless one side concedes defeat, the umpires shall order 
play to resume.
  Unless a result is reached sooner, play will then continue, if 
conditions permit, until the prescribed number of overs has 
been completed and either time for close of play has been 
reached or the allotted time for the innings has expired, as 
appropriate. The number of overs and time remaining shall 
be taken as they were at the call of Time for the supposed 
conclusion of the match. No account shall be taken of the time 
between that moment and the resumption of play.
 16.7.2 If, at this call of Time, the overs have been completed and no 
Playing time remains, or if the side batting last has completed 
its innings, the umpires shall immediately inform both captains 
of the necessary corrections to the scores and to the result.
 16.8 Result not to be changed
  Once the umpires have agreed with the scorers the correctness of the 
scores	at	the	conclusion	of	the	match	–	see	clauses	2.15	(Correctness	  
of	scores)	and	3.2	(Correctness	of	scores)	–	the	result	cannot	thereafter	
be changed.
 16.9 Competition Format
 16.9.1 The ICC World Test Championship will be contested by 9 teams.
  Australia, Bangladesh, England, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, 
South Africa, Sri Lanka, West Indies.
 16.9.2 The competition will be contested in two stages; the Round 
Stage and the Final.
 16.9.3 Each team will play six (6) series as part of the Round Stage, 
three (3) series at home and three (3) series away.
 16.9.4 Each series shall consist of a minimum of two (2) Tests, and a 
maximum	of	five	(5)	Tests.
 16.9.5 The two highest-placed teams at the end of the Round Stage 
will contest the Final. 16.2.3.3 if applicable, no overs shall be deducted during the 
last hour of the match solely on account of this time.
  In addition to the consequences of any refusal to 
play prescribed under this clause, any such refusal, 
whether	temporary	or	final,	may	result	in	disciplinary	
action being taken against the captain and team 
responsible under the ICC Code of Conduct.
 16.3 All other matches – A Tie or Draw
 16.3.1 A Tie
  The result of a match shall be a Tie when all innings have been 
completed and the scores are equal.
 16.3.2 A Draw
  The result of a match shall be a Draw when it is not determined 
in any of the ways stated in clauses 16.1, 16.2 or 16.3.1.
 16.4 Winning hit or extras
	 16.4.1	 As	soon	as	a	result	is	reached	as	defined	in	clauses	16.1,	16.2	or	
16.3.1, the match is at an end. Nothing that happens thereafter, 
except as in clause 41.18.2 (Penalty runs), shall be regarded as 
part of it. Note also clause 16.7.
 16.4.2 The side batting last will have scored enough runs to win 
only	if	its	total	of	runs	is	sufficient	without	including	any	runs	
completed by the batsmen before the completion of a catch,  
or the obstruction of a catch, from which the striker could  
be dismissed.
 16.4.3 If a boundary is scored before the batsmen have completed 
sufficient	runs	to	win	the	match,	the	whole	of	the	boundary	
allowance shall be credited to the side’s total and, in the case  
of a hit by the bat, to the striker’s score.
 16.5 Statement of result
  If the side batting last wins the match without losing all its wickets, the 
result shall be stated as a win by the number of wickets still then to fall.
  If, without having scored a total of runs in excess of the total scored 
by the opposing side, the innings of the side batting last has been 
completed, but as the result of an award of 5 Penalty runs its total of 
runs	is	then	sufficient	to	win,	the	result	shall	be	stated	as	a	win	to	that	
side by Penalty runs.
	 	 If	the	side	fielding	last	wins	the	match,	the	result	shall	be	stated	as	a	win	
by runs.
  If the match is decided by one side conceding defeat or refusing to play, 
the result shall be stated as Match Conceded or Match Awarded, as the 
case may be.
 16.6 Correctness of result
  Any decision as to the correctness of the scores shall be the 
responsibility of the umpires. See clause 2.15 (Correctness of scores).ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.38 3.39 16.12.2.2.1  In calculating the Runs per Wicket Ratio, 
a team forfeiting or declaring its innings 
closed shall be deemed to have lost only the 
number of wickets that have actually fallen.
 16.12.2.2.2 If a match is awarded to the visiting team 
under 16.10.3 above, the runs scored / 
conceded and the wickets lost / taken in 
that match shall not be included in the 
calculation of the Runs per Wicket Ratio for 
the two teams involved in that match.
 16.12.2.3 If still equal, the team that is ranked in the higher 
position in the ICC Men’s Test Team Rankings as at  
the	final	day	of	the	Competition	Window	shall	be	
placed higher.
 16.13 Qualifying for the Final
 16.13.1 The two highest-placed teams at the end of the Round Stage 
will contest the World Test Championship Final.
 16.13.2 The ICC World Test Championship Final will be hosted by the 
England	and	Wales	Cricket	Board,	and	be	scheduled	over	five	(5)	
days, from 10-14 June 2021. A Reserve Day will be also scheduled 
for the Final, to be used if net playing time is lost across the 
scheduled days of the match.
 16.13.3 The full playing conditions for the ICC World Test Championship 
Final will be prepared and be distributed in early 2021.
 17 THE OVER
 17.1 Number of balls
  The ball shall be bowled from each end alternately in overs of 6 balls.
 17.2 Start of an over
  An over has started when the bowler starts his run-up or, if there is no 
run-up,	starts	his	action	for	the	first	delivery	of	that	over.
 17.3 Validity of balls
 17.3.1 A ball shall not count as one of the 6 balls of the over unless it 
is delivered, even though, as in clause 41.16 (Non-striker leaving 
his ground early) a batsman may be dismissed or some other 
incident occurs without the ball having been delivered.
 17.3.2 A ball delivered by the bowler shall not count as one of the  
6 balls of the over
 17.3.2.1 if it is called dead, or is to be considered dead, before 
the striker has had an opportunity to play it. See 
clause 20.6 (Dead ball; ball counting as one of over).
 17.3.2.2 if it is called dead in the circumstances of clause 
20.4.2.6. Note also the special provisions of clause 
20.4.2.5 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball). 16.10 Points
 16.10.1 The maximum number of points available for each series in the 
Round Stage of the ICC World Test Championship shall be one 
hundred and twenty (120), regardless of how many matches the 
series comprises.
 16.10.2 Points shall be distributed evenly across the number of matches 
in the series, according to the following table:
LENGTH  
OF SERIESMATCH RESULT MAXIMUM 
POINTS 
AVAILABLE 
PER SERIESPOINTS FOR 
A WINPOINTS FOR 
A TIEPOINTS FOR 
A DRAWPOINT FOR  
A LOSS
2 matches 60 30 20 0 120
3 matches 40 20 13 0 120
4 matches 30 15 10 0 120
5 matches 24 12 8 0 120
	 16.10.3	 If	a	match	is	abandoned	and	the	pitch	and/or	outfield	is	
ultimately	rated	as	‘Unfit’	under	the	ICC	Pitch	and	Outfield	
Monitoring Process, points for that match shall be distributed 
on the basis that the visiting team won the match and the home 
team	lost	the	match.	Any	abandoned	match	will	be	classified	as	
a drawn match for statistical purposes.
 16.11 Penalty Overs – Points Deduction
 16.11.1 Any team which has been unable to maintain the minimum over 
rate	as	defined	in	12.9	will	incur	one	Penalty	Over	for	each	full	
over it is short of the minimum over rate requirement.
 16.11.2 A team will have two (2) World Test Championship competition 
points deducted from its points total for each Penalty Over it 
incurs during the Round Stage.
 16.12 Points Table
 16.12.1 The World Test Championship Points Table will rank the teams 
in order of the Total Points earned across the six series. Total 
Points earned will be the points won or awarded (16.10 above) 
less the points deducted through any Penalty Overs incurred 
(16.11 above).
 16.12.2 Where two or more teams are level on points at the end of the 
Round Stage, the following criteria shall be used to determine 
positions in the World Test Championship table:
 16.12.2.1 The team that has won the greater number of series 
during the Round Stage will be placed higher;
 16.12.2.2 If still equal, the team with the higher Runs per Wicket 
Ratio (runs scored per wicket lost, divided by runs 
conceded per wicket taken) throughout the Round 
Stage will be placed higher;ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.40 3.41 18 SCORING RUNS
 18.1 A run
  The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored
 18.1.1 so often as the batsmen, at any time while the ball is in play, 
have crossed and made good their ground from end to end.
 18.1.2 when a boundary is scored. See clause 19 (Boundaries).
 18.1.3 when Penalty runs are awarded. See clause 18.6.
 18.2 Runs disallowed
  Wherever in these Playing Conditions provision is made for the scoring 
of runs or awarding of penalties, such runs and penalties will be subject 
to any provisions that may be applicable for the disallowance of runs or 
for the non-award of penalties.
  When runs are disallowed, the one run penalty for No ball or Wide shall 
stand and 5 run penalties shall be allowed, except for Penalty runs under 
clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 18.3 Short runs
 18.3.1 A run is short if a batsman fails to make good his ground in 
turning for a further run.
 18.3.2 Although a short run shortens the succeeding one, the latter if 
completed shall not be regarded as short. A striker setting off 
for	the	first	run	from	in	front	of	the	popping	crease	may	do	so	
also without penalty.
 18.4 Unintentional short runs
  Except in the circumstances of clause 18.5,
 18.4.1 if either batsman runs a short run, the umpire concerned shall, 
unless a boundary is scored, call and signal Short run as soon as 
the ball becomes dead and that run shall not be scored.
 18.4.2 if, after either or both batsmen run short, a boundary is scored 
the umpire concerned shall disregard the short running and shall 
not call or signal Short run.
 18.4.3 if both batsmen run short in one and the same run, this shall be 
regarded as only one short run.
 18.4.4 if more than one run is short then, subject to clauses 18.4.2 and 
18.4.3, all runs called as short shall not be scored.
 18.4.5 if there has been more than one short run, the umpire shall 
inform the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded.
 18.5 Deliberate short runs
 18.5.1 If either umpire considers that one or both batsmen deliberately 
ran short at that umpire’s end, the umpire concerned shall, 
when the ball is dead, call and signal Short run and inform the 
other umpire of what has occurred and apply clause 18.5.2. 17.3.2.3 if it is a No ball. See clause 21 (No ball).
 17.3.2.4 if it is a Wide. See clause 22 (Wide ball).
 17.3.2.5 when any of clauses 24.4 (Player returning without 
permission), 28.2 (Fielding the ball), 41.4 (Deliberate 
attempt to distract striker), or 41.5 (Deliberate 
distraction, deception or obstruction of batsman)  
is applied.
 17.3.3 Any deliveries other than those listed in clauses 17.3.1 and 17.3.2 
shall be known as valid balls. Only valid balls shall count towards 
the 6 balls of the over.
 17.4 Call of Over
  When 6 valid balls have been bowled and when the ball becomes dead, 
the umpire shall call Over before leaving the wicket. See also clause 20.3 
(Call of Over or Time).
 17.5 Umpire miscounting
 17.5.1 If the umpire miscounts the number of valid balls, the over as 
counted by the umpire shall stand.
 17.5.2 If, having miscounted, the umpire allows an over to continue 
after 6 valid balls have been bowled, he/she may subsequently 
call Over when the ball becomes dead after any delivery, even if 
that delivery is not a valid ball.
 17.5.3 Whenever possible, the third umpire shall liaise with the scorers 
and	if	possible	inform	the	on-field	umpires	if	the	over	has	been	
miscounted.
 17.6 Bowler changing ends
  A bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as desired, provided 
he does not bowl two overs consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of 
two consecutive overs, in the same innings.
 17.7 Finishing an over
	 17.7.1	 Other	than	at	the	end	of	an	innings,	a	bowler	shall	finish	an	over	
in progress unless incapacitated or suspended under these 
Playing Conditions.
 17.7.2 If for any reason, other than the end of an innings, an over is left 
uncompleted at the start of an interval or interruption, it shall 
be completed on resumption of play.
 17.8 Bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over
  If for any reason a bowler is incapacitated while running up to deliver 
the	first	ball	of	an	over,	or	is	incapacitated	or	suspended	during	an	over,	
the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball. Another bowler shall complete 
the over from the same end, provided that he does not bowl two overs 
consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of two consecutive overs, in  
that innings.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.42 3.43  Additionally the batting side shall be credited with all runs completed 
by the batsmen before the incident or call of Dead ball and the run in 
progress if the batsmen had already crossed at the instant of the incident 
or	call	of	Dead	ball.	Note	specifically,	however,	the	provisions	of	clause 	
41.5.8 (Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batsman).
 18.10 Crediting of runs scored
  Unless stated otherwise in these Playing Conditions,
 18.10.1 if the ball is struck by the bat, all runs scored by the batting side 
shall be credited to the striker, except for the following:
 -  an award of 5 Penalty runs, which shall be scored as Penalty runs
 -  the one run penalty for a No ball, which shall be scored as a 
No ball extra.
 18.10.2 if the ball is not struck by the bat, runs shall be scored as Penalty 
runs, Byes, Leg byes, No ball extras or Wides as the case may 
be. If Byes or Leg byes accrue from a No ball, only the one run 
penalty for No ball shall be scored as such, and the remainder  
as Byes or Leg byes as appropriate.
 18.10.3 the bowler shall be debited with:
 -  all runs scored by the striker
 -  all runs scored as No ball extras
 -  all runs scored as Wides.
 18.11 Batsman returning to original end
 18.11.1 When the striker is dismissed in any of the circumstances in 
clauses 18.11.1.1 to 18.11.1.5, the not out batsman shall return to his 
original end.
 18.11.1.1 Bowled.
 18.11.1.2 Stumped.
 18.11.1.3 Hit the ball twice.
 18.11.1.4 LBW.
 18.11.1.5 Hit wicket.
 18.11.2 The batsmen shall return to their original ends in any of the 
cases of clauses 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3.
 18.11.2.1 A boundary is scored.
 18.11.2.2 Runs are disallowed for any reason.
 18.11.2.3 A decision by the batsmen at the wicket to do so, 
under clause 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception  
or obstruction of batsman). 18.5.2 The bowler’s end umpire shall
 -  disallow all runs to the batting side;
 -  return any not out batsman to his original end;
 -  signal No ball or Wide to the scorers, if applicable;
	 -		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side;
 -  award any other 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for 
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side);
 -  inform the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded; 
and
	 -		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
 18.6 Runs awarded for penalties
  Runs shall be awarded for penalties under clauses 18.5 (Deliberate 
short runs), 21 (No ball), 22 (Wide ball), 24.4 (Player returning without 
permission), 26.4 (Penalties for contravention), 28.2 (Fielding the ball), 
28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side),	41	(Unfair	play) 	
and 42 (Players’ conduct). Note, however, the restrictions on the award of 
Penalty runs in clauses 23.3 (Leg byes not to be awarded), 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side)	and	34	(Hit	the	ball	twice)
 18.7 Runs scored for boundaries
  Runs shall be scored for boundary allowances under clause 19 (Boundaries).
 18.8 Runs scored when a batsman is dismissed
  When a batsman is dismissed, any runs for penalties awarded to either 
side shall stand.
  No other runs shall be credited to the batting side, except as follows.
	 18.8.1	 If	a	batsman	is	dismissed	Obstructing	the	field,	the	batting	side	
shall also score any runs completed before the offence.
  If, however, the obstruction prevented a catch being made, no 
runs other than penalties shall be scored.
 18.8.2 If a batsman is dismissed Run out, the batting side shall also 
score any runs completed before the wicket was put down:
 18.9 Runs scored when the ball becomes dead other than at the fall of  
a wicket
  When the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the fall of a 
wicket,	or	is	called	dead	by	an	umpire,	unless	there	is	specific	provision	
otherwise in these Playing Conditions, any runs for penalties awarded to 
either side shall be scored. Note however the provisions of clauses 23.3 
(Leg byes not to be awarded) and 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to 
the	fielding	side).
 ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.44 3.45 19.2 Identifying and marking the boundary
 19.2.1  All boundaries must be designated by a rope, or similar object of 
a minimum standard as authorised by the ICC from time to time. 
 19.2.2 If the boundary is marked by means of an object that is in 
contact with the ground the boundary will be the edge of the 
grounded part of the object which is nearest the pitch.
	 19.2.3	 An	obstacle	within	the	field	of	play	shall	not	be	regarded	as	a	
boundary unless so determined by the umpires before the toss. 
See clause 2.3.4 (Consultation with Home Board).
 19.2.4  If an unauthorised person enters the playing arena and handles 
the ball, the umpire at the bowler’s end shall be the sole judge of 
whether the boundary allowance should be scored or the ball be 
treated as still in play or called dead ball if a batsman is liable to 
be out as a result of the unauthorised person handling the ball.
 19.3 Restoring the boundary
  If a solid object used to mark the boundary is disturbed for any reason, then:
 19.3.1 the boundary shall be considered to be in its original position.
 19.3.2 the object shall be returned to its original position as soon as 
is practicable; if play is taking place, this shall be as soon as the 
ball is dead.
	 19.3.3	 if	some	part	of	a	fence	or	other	marker	has	come	within	the	field	
of	play,	that	part	shall	be	removed	from	the	field	of	play	as	soon	
as is practicable; if play is taking place, this shall be as soon as 
the ball is dead.
 19.4 Ball grounded beyond the boundary
 19.4.1 The ball in play is grounded beyond the boundary if it touches
 -  the boundary or any part of an object used to mark the 
boundary;
 -  the ground beyond the boundary;
 -  any object that is grounded beyond the boundary.
 19.4.2 The ball in play is to be regarded as being grounded beyond the 
boundary if
	 -		a	fielder,	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	as	in	clause	19.5,	
touches the ball;
	 -		a	fielder,	after	catching	the	ball	within	the	boundary,	
becomes grounded beyond the boundary while in contact 
with the ball, before completing the catch.
 19.5 Fielder grounded beyond the boundary
	 19.5.1	 A	fielder	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	if	some	part	of	his	
person is in contact with any of the following:
 -  the boundary or any part of an object used to mark the boundary;
 -  the ground beyond the boundary;
 -  any object that is in contact with the ground beyond the boundary;
	 -		another	fielder	who	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary. 18.12 Batsman returning to wicket he has left
 18.12.1 When a batsman is dismissed in any of the ways in clauses 
18.12.1.1 to 18.12.1.3, the not out batsman shall return to the wicket 
he has left but only if the batsmen had not already crossed at 
the instant of the incident causing the dismissal. If runs are to 
be disallowed, however, the not out batsman shall return to his 
original end.
 18.12.1.1 Caught
	 18.12.1.2	 Obstructing	the	field
 18.12.1.3 Run out.
 18.12.2 If, while a run is in progress, the ball becomes dead for any 
reason other than the dismissal of a batsman, the batsmen 
shall return to the wickets they had left, but only if they had 
not already crossed in running when the ball became dead. If, 
however, any of the circumstances of clauses 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3 
apply, the batsmen shall return to their original ends.
 19 BOUNDARIES
	 19.1	 Determining	the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play
 19.1.1 Before the toss, the umpires shall determine the boundary of 
the	field	of	play,	which	shall	be	fixed	for	the	duration	of	the	
match. See clause 2.3.4 (Consultation with Home Board).
 19.1.2 The boundary shall be determined such that no part of any 
sight-screen,	will,	at	any	stage	of	the	match,	be	within	the	field	
of play.
 19.1.3  The aim shall be to maximize the size of the playing area at each 
venue. With respect to the size of the boundaries, no boundary 
shall be longer than 90 yards (82.29 meters), and no boundary 
should be shorter than 65 yards (59.43 metres) from the centre 
of the pitch to be used.
 19.1.4 At all times, there must be 3 yards (2.74 meters) from the 
boundary	rope	to	the	first	solid	object	(advertising	boards/LEDs,	
photographers, cameramen, dug outs, covers, perimeter fence) 
for the player’s safety run off.
 19.1.5  If the boundary is positioned less than 90 yards (82.29 meters) 
from the centre of the pitch, the boundary rope cannot be 
set at a distance of more than 10 yards (9.14 meters) from the 
perimeter fence. The 10 yards shall be inclusive of the 3 yards 
(2.74 meters) provided for the player’s safety run off.
 19.1.6  Any ground which has previously been approved to host 
international cricket which is unable to conform to the minimum 
boundary dimension shall be exempt. In such cases the 
boundary shall be positioned so as to maximize the size of the 
playing area. Any ground which has previously been approved 
to host international cricket which is unable to conform to the 
minimum boundary dimension shall be exempt. In such cases 
the boundary shall be positioned so as to maximize the size of 
the playing area.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.46 3.47 20 DEAD BALL
 20.1 Ball is dead
 20.1.1 The ball becomes dead when
	 20.1.1.1	 it	is	finally	settled	in	the	hands	of	the	wicket-keeper	
or of the bowler.
 20.1.1.2 a boundary is scored. See clause 19.7 (Runs scored 
from boundaries).
 20.1.1.3 a batsman is dismissed. The ball will be deemed  
to be dead from the instant of the incident causing  
the dismissal.
 20.1.1.4 whether played or not it becomes trapped between 
the bat and person of a batsman or between items of 
his clothing or equipment.
 20.1.1.5 whether played or not it lodges in the clothing or 
equipment of a batsman or the clothing of an umpire.
 20.1.1.6 there is an award of Penalty runs under either of 
clauses 24.4 (Player returning without permission) or 
28.2 (Fielding the ball). The ball shall not count as one 
of the over.
 20.1.1.7 there is a contravention of clause 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 20.1.1.8 the match is concluded in any of the ways stated in 
clause 12.6 (Conclusion of match).
 20.1.2 The ball shall be considered to be dead when it is clear to the 
bowler’s	end	umpire	that	the	fielding	side	and	both	batsmen	at	
the wicket have ceased to regard it as in play.
	 20.1.3	 In	a	match	where	cameras	are	being	used	on	or	over	the	field	
of play (e.g. Spidercam), should a ball that has been hit by the 
batsman make contact, while still in play, with the camera, its 
apparatus	or	its	cable,	either	umpire	shall	call	and	signal	‘dead	
ball’. The ball shall not count as one of the over and no runs shall 
be scored. If the delivery was called a No ball it shall count and 
the No ball penalty shall be applied. No other runs (including 
penalty runs) apart from the No ball penalty shall be scored.
	 20.1.4	 Should	a	ball	thrown	by	a	fielder	make	contact	with	a	camera	on	
or	over	the	field	of	play,	its	apparatus	or	its	cable,	either	umpire	
shall call and signal dead ball. Unless this was already a No ball 
or Wide, the ball shall count as one of the over. All runs scored 
to that point shall count, plus the run in progress if the batsmen 
have already crossed.
 20.1.5 Refer also to paragraph 2.6 of Appendix D.
	 20.2	 Ball	finally	settled
	 	 Whether	the	ball	is	finally	settled	or	not	is	a	matter	for	the	umpire	alone	
to decide.	 19.5.2	 A	fielder	who	is	not	in	contact	with	the	ground	is	considered	to	
be	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	if	his	final	contact	with	the	
ground,	before	his	first	contact	with	the	ball	after	it	has	been	
delivered by the bowler, was not entirely within the boundary.
 19.6 Boundary allowances
 19.6.1 6 runs shall be allowed for a boundary 6; and 4 runs for a 
boundary 4. See also clause 19.7.
 19.7 Runs scored from boundaries
 19.7.1  A boundary 6 will be scored if and only if the ball has been struck 
by	the	bat	and	is	first	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	without 	
having	been	in	contact	with	the	ground	within	the	field	of	play. 	
This	shall	apply	even	if	the	ball	has	previously	touched	a	fielder.
 19.7.2 A boundary 4 will be scored when a ball that is grounded 
beyond the boundary
	 -		whether	struck	by	the	bat	or	not,	was	first	grounded	within	
the boundary, or
 -  has not been struck by the bat.
 19.7.3 When a boundary is scored, the batting side, except in the 
circumstances of clause 19.8, shall be awarded whichever is the 
greater of
 19.7.3.1 the allowance for the boundary
 19.7.3.2 the runs completed by the batsmen together with 
the run in progress if they had already crossed at the 
instant the boundary is scored.
 19.7.4 When the runs in clause 19.7.3.2 exceed the boundary allowance 
they shall replace the boundary allowance for the purposes of 
clause 18.12.2.
 19.7.5 The scoring of Penalty runs by either side is not affected by the 
scoring of a boundary.
	 19.8	 Overthrow	or	wilful	act	of	fielder
  If the boundary results from an overthrow or from the wilful act of a 
fielder,	the	runs	scored	shall	be
  any runs for penalties awarded to either side
  and the allowance for the boundary
  and the runs completed by the batsmen, together with the run in 
progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the throw or act.
  Clause 18.12.2 (Batsman returning to wicket he has left) shall apply as 
from the instant of the throw or act.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.48 3.49 20.6.1.2 unless No ball or Wide ball has been called, it will be 
a valid ball if the striker has had an opportunity to 
play it, except in the circumstances of clauses 20.4.2.6 
and 24.4 (Player returning without permission), 28.2 
(Fielding the ball), 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract 
striker) and 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception or 
obstruction of batsman).
 20.6.2 In clause 20.4.2.5, the ball will not count in the over only if both 
conditions of not attempting to play the ball and having an 
adequate reason for not being ready are met. Otherwise the 
delivery will be a valid ball.
 21 NO BALL
 21.1 Mode of delivery
 21.1.1 The umpire shall ascertain whether the bowler intends to bowl 
right handed or left handed, over or round the wicket, and shall 
so inform the striker.
  It is unfair if the bowler fails to notify the umpire of a change in 
his mode of delivery. In this case the umpire shall call and signal 
No ball.
 21.1.2 Underarm bowling shall not be permitted.
 21.2 Fair delivery – the arm
  For a delivery to be fair in respect of the arm the ball must not be 
delivered with an Illegal Bowling Action.
	 	 An	Illegal	Bowling	Action	is	defined	as	a	bowling	action	where	a	
bowler’s Elbow Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured from the point 
at which the bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the point at which 
the ball is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for 
the purposes of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).
  Should either umpire or the ICC Match Referee suspect that a bowler 
has used an Illegal Bowling Action, they shall complete the ICC Bowling 
Action Report Form at the conclusion of the match, as set out in the 
Illegal Bowling Regulations.
 21.3 Ball thrown or delivered underarm – action by umpires
 21.3.1 If, in the opinion of either umpire, the ball has been thrown 
(where such mode of delivery does not correspond to the 
bowler’s normal bowling action) or delivered underarm, he/she 
shall call and signal No ball and, when the ball is dead, inform 
the other umpire of the reason for the call.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 -		warn	the	bowler,	indicating	that	this	is	a	first	and	final	
warning. This warning shall apply to that bowler throughout 
the innings.
	 -		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	reason	for	 
this action.
 -  inform the batsmen at the wicket of what has occurred. 20.3 Call of Over or Time
  Neither the call of Over (see clause 17.4), nor the call of Time (see clause 
12.2) is to be made until the ball is dead, either under clauses 20.1 or 20.4.
 20.4 Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball
 20.4.1 When the ball has become dead under clause 20.1, the bowler’s 
end umpire may call and signal Dead ball if it is necessary to 
inform the players.
 20.4.2 Either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball when
 20.4.2.1 intervening in a case of unfair play.
 20.4.2.2 a possibly serious injury to a player or umpire occurs.
 20.4.2.3 leaving his/her normal position for consultation.
 20.4.2.4 one or both bails fall from the striker’s wicket before 
the striker has had the opportunity of playing the ball.
 20.4.2.5 the striker is not ready for the delivery of the ball and, 
if the ball is delivered, makes no attempt to play it. 
Provided	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	the	striker	had	
adequate reason for not being ready, the ball shall not 
count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.6 the striker is distracted by any noise or movement 
or in any other way while preparing to receive, or 
receiving a delivery. This shall apply whether the 
source of the distraction is within the match or 
outside it. Note also clause 20.4.2.7. The ball shall not 
count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.7 there is an instance of a deliberate attempt to distract 
under either of clauses 41.4 (Deliberate attempt 
to distract striker) or 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, 
deception or obstruction of batsman). The ball shall 
not count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.8 the bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery.
 20.4.2.9 the ball does not leave the bowler’s hand for 
any reason other than an attempt to run out the 
non-striker under clause 41.16 (Non-striker leaving his 
ground early).
	 20.4.2.10	 satisfied	that	the	ball	in	play	cannot	be	recovered.
 20.4.2.11 required to do so under any of the Playing Conditions 
not included above.
 20.5 Ball ceases to be dead
	 	 The	ball	ceases	to	be	dead	–	that	is,	it	comes	into	play	–	when	the	bowler 	
starts his run-up or, if there is no run-up, starts his bowling action.
 20.6 Dead ball; ball counting as one of over
 20.6.1 When a ball which has been delivered is called dead or is to be 
considered dead then, other than as in clause 20.6.2,
 20.6.1.1 it will not count in the over if the striker has not had 
an opportunity to play it.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.50 3.51 21.7 Ball bouncing more than once, rolling along the ground or pitching 
off the pitch
  The umpire shall call and signal No ball if a ball which he/she considers 
to have been delivered, without having previously touched bat or 
person of the striker,
 -  bounces more than once or rolls along the ground before it reaches 
the popping crease.
	 -		 or	pitches	wholly	or	partially	off	the	pitch	as	defined	in	clause	6.1	
(Area of pitch) before it reaches the line of the striker’s wicket.
 21.8 Ball coming to rest in front of striker’s wicket
  If a ball delivered by the bowler comes to rest in front of the line of the 
striker’s wicket, without having previously touched the bat or person of 
the striker, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and immediately call 
and signal Dead ball.
 21.9 Fielder intercepting a delivery
  If, except in the circumstances of clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper) 
a	ball	delivered	by	the	bowler,	makes	contact	with	any	part	of	a	fielder’s	
person before it either makes contact with the striker’s bat or person, or 
it passes the striker’s wicket, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and 
immediately call and signal Dead ball.
 21.10 Ball bouncing over head height of striker
  See clauses 22.1.1.2, 41.6.4 and 41.6.5.
 21.11 Call of No ball for infringement of other Playing Conditions
  In addition to the instances above, No ball is to be called and signalled 
as required by the following clauses:
	 	 Clause	27.3	–	Position	of	wicket-keeper
	 	 Clause	28.4	–	Limitation	of	on	side	fielders
	 	 Clause	28.5	–	Fielders	not	to	encroach	on	pitch
	 	 Clause	41.6	–	Bowling	of	dangerous	and	unfair	short	pitched	deliveries
	 	 Clause	41.7	–	Bowling	of	dangerous	and	unfair	non-pitching	deliveries
	 	 Clause	41.8	–	Bowling	of	deliberate	front	foot	No	ball.
 21.12 Revoking a call of No ball
  An umpire shall revoke the call of No ball if Dead ball is called under 
any of clauses 20.4.2.4 to 20.4.2.9 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead 
ball). However, if a no ball is called in breach of clause 20.4.2.7 (41.4 
-	Deliberate	attempt	to	distract	striker	before	playing	the	ball	or	41.5	–	
Deliberate attempt of Distraction, Deception or Obstruction of striker 
after the stroke) the No ball will stand.
 21.13 No ball to over-ride Wide
  A call of No ball shall over-ride the call of Wide ball at any time. See 
clauses 22.1 (Judging a Wide) and 22.2 (Call and signal of Wide ball). 21.3.2 If either umpire considers that, in that innings, a further delivery 
by the same bowler is thrown (where such mode of delivery 
does not correspond to the bowler’s normal bowling action) 
or delivered underarm, he/she shall call and signal No ball and 
when the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the reason for 
the call.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 -		direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	
immediately from bowling. The over shall, if applicable, be 
completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled 
the previous over or part thereof nor be allowed to bowl any 
part of the next over. The bowler thus suspended shall not 
bowl again in that innings.
 -  inform the batsmen at the wicket and, as soon as practicable, 
the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action.
 21.3.3 The umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as 
possible after the match to the ICC Match Referee, who shall 
take such action as is considered appropriate against the  
bowler concerned.
 21.4 Bowler throwing towards striker’s end before delivery
  If the bowler throws the ball towards the striker’s end before entering 
the delivery stride, either umpire shall call and signal No ball. See clause 
41.17 (Batsmen stealing a run).
	 	 However,	the	procedure	stated	in	clause	21.3	of	caution,	informing,	final	
warning, action against the bowler and reporting shall not apply.
 21.5 Fair delivery – the feet
  For a delivery to be fair in respect of the feet, in the delivery stride
 21.5.1 the bowler’s back foot must land within and not touching the 
return crease appertaining to his stated mode of delivery.
 21.5.2 the bowler’s front foot must land with some part of the foot, 
whether grounded or raised
 -  on the same side of the imaginary line joining the two middle 
stumps as the return crease described in clause 21.5.1, and
 -  behind the popping crease.
	 	 If	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	is	satisfied	that	any	of	these	three	
conditions have not been met, he/she shall call and signal No 
ball. See clause 41.8 (Bowling of deliberate front foot No ball).
 21.6 Bowler breaking wicket in delivering ball
  Either umpire shall call and signal No ball if, other than in an attempt to 
run out the non-striker under clause 41.16, the bowler breaks the wicket 
at any time after the ball comes into play and before completion of the 
stride after the delivery stride. This shall include any clothing or other 
object that falls from his person and breaks the wicket.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.52 3.53 22.2 Call and signal of Wide ball
  If the umpire adjudges a delivery to be a Wide he/she shall call and 
signal Wide ball as soon as the ball passes the striker’s wicket. It shall, 
however, be considered to have been a Wide from the instant that the 
bowler entered his delivery stride, even though it cannot be called Wide 
until it passes the striker’s wicket.
 22.3 Revoking a call of Wide ball
 22.3.1 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if there is then any 
contact between the ball and the striker’s bat or person before 
the	ball	comes	into	contact	with	any	fielder.
 22.3.2 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if a delivery is 
called a No ball. See clause 21.13 (No ball to over-ride Wide).
 22.4 Delivery not a Wide
 22.4.1 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide, if the 
striker, by moving, either causes the ball to pass wide of him, as 
defined	in	clause	22.1.2	or	brings	the	ball	sufficiently	within	reach	
to be able to hit it by means of a normal cricket stroke.
 22.4.2 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide if the 
ball touches the striker’s bat or person, but only as the ball 
passes the striker.
 22.5 Ball not dead
  The ball does not become dead on the call of Wide ball.
 22.6 Penalty for a Wide
  A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of Wide ball. 
Unless the call is revoked, see clause 22.3, this penalty shall stand even if 
a batsman is dismissed, and shall be in addition to any other runs scored, 
any boundary allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.
 22.7 Runs resulting from a Wide – how scored
  All runs completed by the batsmen or a boundary allowance, together 
with the penalty for the Wide, shall be scored as Wide balls. Apart from 
any award of 5 Penalty runs, all runs resulting from a Wide shall be 
debited against the bowler.
 22.8 Wide not to count
  A Wide shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of balls).
 22.9 Out from a Wide
  When Wide ball has been called, neither batsman shall be out under 
any of the Playing Conditions except clause 35 (Hit wicket), clause 37 
(Obstructing	the	field),	clause	38	(Run	out)	or	clause	39	(Stumped).
  21.14 Ball not dead
 The ball does not become dead on the call of No ball.
 21.15 Penalty for a No ball
  A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of No ball. 
Unless the call is revoked, the penalty shall stand even if a batsman is 
dismissed. It shall be in addition to any other runs scored, any boundary 
allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.
 21.16 Runs resulting from a No ball – how scored
  The one run penalty shall be scored as a No ball extra and shall be 
debited against the bowler. If other Penalty runs have been awarded to 
either side these shall be scored as stated in clause 41.18 (Penalty runs). 
Any runs completed by the batsmen or any boundary allowance shall be 
credited to the striker if the ball has been struck by the bat; otherwise 
they shall also be scored as Byes or Leg byes as appropriate.
 21.17 No ball not to count
  A No ball shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of balls).
 21.18 Out from a No ball
  When No ball has been called, neither batsman shall be out under any 
of the Playing Conditions except clause 34 (Hit the ball twice), clause 37 
(Obstructing	the	field)	or	clause	38	(Run	out).
 22 WIDE BALL
 22.1 Judging a Wide
 22.1.1 If the bowler bowls a ball, not being a No ball, the umpire shall 
adjudge	it	a	Wide	if,	according	to	the	definition	in	clause	22.1.2
 22.1.1.1 the ball passes wide of where the striker is standing 
and which also would have passed wide of the striker 
standing in a normal guard position.
 22.1.1.2 the ball passes above the head height of the striker 
standing upright at the popping crease.
 22.1.2 The ball will be considered as passing wide of the striker unless 
it	is	sufficiently	within	reach	for	him	to	be	able	to	hit	it	with	the	
bat by means of a normal cricket stroke.
 22.1.3 For bowlers attempting to utilise the rough outside a batsman’s 
leg stump, not necessarily as a negative tactic, the strict limited 
over Wide interpretation shall be applied.
 22.1.4 For bowlers whom umpires consider to be bowling down 
the leg side as a negative tactic, the strict limited over Wide 
interpretation shall be applied.
 ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.54 3.55 24 FIELDER’S ABSENCE; SUBSTITUTES
	 24.1	 Substitute	fielders
	 24.1.1	 The	umpires	shall	allow	a	substitute	fielder
	 24.1.1.1	 if	they	are	satisfied	that	a	fielder	has	been	injured	or	
become ill and that this occurred during the match, or
 24.1.1.2 for any other wholly acceptable reason.
  In all other circumstances, a substitute is not allowed.
 24.1.2 A substitute shall not bowl or act as captain but may act as 
wicket-keeper only with the consent of the umpires. Note, 
however, clause 42.4.1.
	 24.1.3	 A	nominated	player	may	bowl	or	field	even	though	a	substitute	
has previously acted for him, subject to clauses 24.2 and 24.3.
	 24.1.4	 Squad	members	of	the	fielding	or	batting	team	who	are	not	
playing in the match and who are not acting as substitute 
fielders	shall	be	required	to	wear	a	team	training	bib	whilst	on	
the playing area (including the area between the boundary and 
the perimeter fencing).
	 24.2	 Fielder	absent	or	leaving	the	field	of	play
	 24.2.1	 A	player	going	briefly	outside	the	boundary	while	carrying	out	
any	duties	as	a	fielder	is	not	absent	from	the	field	of	play	nor,	for	
the purposes of this clause, is he to be regarded as having left 
the	field	of	play.
	 24.2.2	 If	a	fielder	fails	to	take	the	field	at	the	start	of	play	or	at	any	later	
time,	or	leaves	the	field	during	play,
 24.2.2.1 an umpire shall be informed of the reason for  
this absence.
	 24.2.2.2	 he	shall	not	thereafter	come	on	to	the	field	of	play	
during a session of play without the consent of the 
umpire. See clause 24.4. The umpire shall give such 
consent as soon as it is practicable.
	 24.2.3	 If	a	player	is	absent	from	the	field	for	longer	than	8	minutes,	the	
following restrictions shall apply to their future participation in 
the match:
 24.2.3.1  The player shall not be permitted to bowl in the match 
until	he	has	either	been	able	to	field,	or	his	team	has 	
subsequently been batting, for the total length of 
playing time for which the player was absent (hereafter 
referred to as Penalty time). A player’s unexpired 
Penalty time shall be limited to a maximum of 120 
minutes. If any unexpired Penalty time remains at the 
end of an innings, it is carried forward to the next and 
subsequent innings of the match. 23 BYE AND LEG BYE
 23.1 Byes
  If the ball, delivered by the bowler, not being a Wide, passes the striker 
without touching his bat or person, any runs completed by the batsmen 
from that delivery, or a boundary allowance, shall be credited as Byes 
to the batting side. Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run 
penalty for such a delivery shall be incurred.
 23.2 Leg byes
	 23.2.1	 If	a	ball	delivered	by	the	bowler	first	strikes	the	person	of	the	
striker,	runs	shall	be	scored	only	if	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	
the striker has
  either attempted to play the ball with the bat; or
  tried to avoid being hit by the ball.
	 23.2.2	 If	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	either	of	these	conditions	has	been	
met runs shall be scored as follows.
 23.2.2.1 If there is
  either no subsequent contact with the striker’s bat or 
person, or
  only inadvertent contact with the striker’s bat or person,
  any runs completed by the batsmen or a boundary 
allowance shall be credited to the striker in the case 
of subsequent contact with his bat but otherwise to 
the batting side as in clause 23.2.3.
 23.2.2.2 If the striker wilfully makes a lawful second strike, 
clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once) and 
clause 34.4 (Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck 
more than once) shall apply.
 23.2.3 The runs in clause 23.2.2.1, unless credited to the striker, shall be 
scored as Leg byes.
  Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run penalty for 
the No ball shall be incurred.
 23.3 Leg byes not to be awarded
  If in the circumstance of clause 23.2.1 the umpire considers that neither of 
the conditions therein has been met, then Leg byes shall not be awarded.
  If the ball does not become dead for any other reason, the umpire shall 
call and signal Dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at 
the	completion	of	the	first	run.
  The umpire shall then:
 -  disallow all runs to the batting side;
 -  return any not out batsman to his original end;
 -  signal No ball to the scorers if applicable;
 -  award any 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for Penalty runs 
under	clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.56 3.57 24.4 Player returning without permission
	 	 If	a	player	comes	on	to	the	field	of	play	in	contravention	of	clause	24.2.2	
and comes into contact with the ball while it is in play, the ball shall 
immediately become dead.
 -  The umpire shall award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.
 -  Runs completed by the batsmen shall be scored together with the run 
in progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
 -  The ball shall not count as one of the over.
	 -		 The	umpire	shall	inform	the	other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	
side, the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the 
batting side of the reason for this action.
 25 BATSMAN’S INNINGS
 25.1 Eligibility to act as a batsman
  Only a nominated player may bat and, subject to clause 25.3, may do so 
even	though	a	substitute	fielder	has	previously	acted	for	him.
 25.2 Commencement of a batsman’s innings
	 	 The	innings	of	the	first	two	batsmen,	and	that	of	any	new	batsman	on	
the resumption of play after a call of Time, shall commence at the call of 
Play. At any other time, a batsman’s innings shall be considered to have 
commenced	when	that	batsman	first	steps	onto	the	field	of	play.
 25.3 Restriction on batsman commencing an innings
 25.3.1 If a member of the batting side has unserved Penalty time (see 
clause 24.2.7) that player shall not be permitted to bat until that 
Penalty time has been served. However, even if the unserved 
Penalty time has not expired, that player may bat after his side 
has lost 5 wickets.
 25.3.2 A member of the batting side’s Penalty time is served during 
Playing time. In the event of an unscheduled stoppage, the 
stoppage	time	after	the	batsman	notifies	an	umpire	in	person	
that he is able to participate shall count as Penalty time served.
 25.3.3 If any unserved Penalty time remains at the end of a team’s 
innings, it shall be carried forward to the next and subsequent 
innings of the match if appropriate.
 25.4 Batsman retiring
 25.4.1 A batsman may retire at any time during his innings when the 
ball is dead. The umpires, before allowing play to proceed, shall 
be informed of the reason for a batsman retiring.
 25.4.2 If a batsman retires because of illness, injury or any other 
unavoidable cause, that batsman is entitled to resume his 
innings. If for any reason this does not happen, that batsman is 
to	be	recorded	as	‘Retired	-	not	out’. 24.2.3.2 The player shall not be permitted to bat in the match 
until his team’s batting innings has been in progress 
for the length of playing time that is equal to the 
unexpired Penalty time carried forward from the 
previous	innings.	However,	once	his	side	has	lost	five	
wickets in its batting innings, he may bat immediately. 
If any unexpired penalty time remains at the end of 
that batting innings, it is carried forward to the next 
and subsequent innings of the match.
	 24.2.4	 If	the	player	leaves	the	field	before	having	served	all	of	his	Penalty 	
time, the balance is carried forward as unserved Penalty time.
 24.2.5 On any occasion of absence, the amount of playing time for 
which	the	player	is	off	the	field	shall	be	added	to	any	Penalty	
time that remains unserved, subject to a maximum cumulative 
Penalty time of 120 minutes, and that player shall not bowl until 
all of his Penalty time has been served.
 24.2.6 For the purposes of clauses 24.2.3.1 and 24.2.3.2, playing time 
shall comprise the time play is in progress excluding lunch 
and	tea	intervals,	intervals	between	innings	and	official	drinks	
intervals. For clarity, a player’s Penalty time will continue to 
expire after he is dismissed, for the remainder of his team’s 
batting innings.
 24.2.7 If there is an unscheduled break in play, the stoppage time shall 
count as Penalty time served, provided that,
	 24.2.7.1	 the	fielder	who	was	on	the	field	of	play	at	the	start	of	
the	break	either	takes	the	field	on	the	resumption	of	
play, or his side is now batting.
	 24.2.7.2	 the	fielder	who	was	already	off	the	field	at	the	start	
of	the	break	notifies	an	umpire	in	person	as	soon	as	
he	is	able	to	participate,	and	either	takes	the	field	
on the resumption of play, or his side is now batting. 
Stoppage	time	before	an	umpire	has	been	so	notified	
shall not count towards unserved Penalty time.
 24.2.8  Any unserved Penalty time shall be carried forward into the next 
and subsequent days and innings of the match, as applicable.
 24.3 Penalty time not incurred
  A nominated player’s absence will not incur Penalty time if,
 24.3.1 he has suffered an external blow during the match and, as a 
result,	has	justifiably	left	the	field	or	is	unable	to	take	the	field.
 24.3.2 in the opinion of the umpires, the player has been absent or has 
left	the	field	for	other	wholly	acceptable	reasons,	which	shall	
not include illness or internal injury.
	 24.3.3	 the	player	is	absent	from	the	field	for	a	period	of	8	minutes	or	less.
 ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.58 3.59	 -		the	umpires	are	satisfied	that	it	will	not	contravene	either	
of clauses 41.3 (The match ball changing its condition) or 41.9 
(Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	side).
	 	 Bowling	a	ball,	using	a	short	run	up	to	a	player	in	the	outfield	is	
not to be regarded as bowling practice but shall be subject to 
the other conditions in this clause.
 26.3 Trial run-up
  A bowler is permitted to have a trial run-up provided the umpire is 
satisfied	that	it	will	not	contravene	either	of	clauses	41.9	(Time	wasting	
by	the	fielding	side)	or	41.12	(Fielder	damaging	the	pitch).
 26.4 Penalties for contravention
  All forms of practice are subject to the provisions of clauses 41.13 (The 
match	ball	–	changing	its	condition),	41.9	(Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	
side) and 41.12 (Fielder damaging the pitch).
 26.4.1 If there is a contravention of any of the provisions of clause 26.1 
or 26.2, the umpire shall
 -  warn the player that the practice is not permitted;
 -  inform the other umpire and, as soon as practicable, both 
captains of the reason for this action.
 26.4.1.1 If the contravention is by a batsman at the wicket, 
the umpire shall inform the other batsman and each 
incoming batsman that the warning has been issued. 
The warning shall apply to the team of that player 
throughout the match.
 26.4.2 If during the match there is any further contravention by any 
player of that team, the umpire shall
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing side;
 -  inform the other umpire, the scorers and, as soon as 
practicable, both captains, and, if the contravention is during 
play, the batsmen at the wicket.
 27 THE WICKET-KEEPER
 27.1 Protective equipment
	 	 The	wicket-keeper	is	the	only	fielder	permitted	to	wear	gloves	and 	
external leg guards. If these are worn, they are to be regarded as part 
of his person for the purposes of clause 28.2 (Fielding the ball). If by the 
wicket-keeper’s actions and positioning when the ball comes into play it 
is apparent to the umpires that he will not be able to carry out the normal 
duties of a wicket-keeper, he shall forfeit this right and also the right to 
be recognised as a wicket-keeper for the purposes of clauses 33.2 (A fair 
catch), 39 (Stumped), 28.1 (Protective equipment), 28.4 (Limitation of 
on-side	fielders)	and	28.5	(Fielders	not	to	encroach	on	pitch). 25.4.3 If a batsman retires for any reason other than as in clause 25.4.2, 
the innings of that batsman may be resumed only with the 
consent of the opposing captain. If for any reason his innings is 
not	resumed,	that	batsman	is	to	be	recorded	as	‘Retired	-	out’.
 25.4.4 If after retiring a batsman resumes his innings, subject to the 
requirements of clauses 25.4.2 and 25.4.3, it shall be only at the 
fall of a wicket or the retirement of another batsman.
 25.5 Runners
  Runners shall not be permitted.
 26 PRACTICE ON THE FIELD
 26.1 Practice on the pitch or the rest of the square
 26.1.1 There shall not be any practice on the pitch at any time on any 
day of the match.
 26.1.2  There shall not be any practice on the rest of the square at any time 
on any day of the match, except with the approval of the umpires.
 26.1.2.1 If approved by the umpires, the use of the square for 
practice on any day of any match will be restricted to 
any	netted	practice	area	or	bowling	strips	specifically	
prepared on the edge of the square for that purpose.
 26.1.2.2 Bowling practice on the bowling strips referred to 
above shall also be permitted during the interval 
(and change of innings if not the interval) unless the 
umpires consider that, in the prevailing conditions 
of ground and weather, it will be detrimental to the 
surface of the square.
	 26.2	 Practice	on	the	outfield
 26.2.1 On any day of the match, all forms of practice are permitted on 
the	outfield
 - before the start of play;
 -  after the close of play; and
 -  during the lunch and tea intervals or between innings,
	 	 providing	the	umpires	are	satisfied	that	such	practice	will	not	
cause	significant	deterioration	in	the	condition	of	the	outfield.
 26.2.2 Between the call of Play and the call of Time, practice shall be 
permitted	on	the	outfield,	providing	that	all	of	the	following	
conditions are met:
	 -		only	the	fielders	(as	defined	in	paragraph	7	of	Appendix	A)	
participate in such practice.
 -  no ball other than the match ball is used for this practice.
 -  no bowling practice takes place in the area between the square 
and the boundary in a direction parallel to the match pitch.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.60 3.61 27.6 Interference with wicket-keeper by striker
  If, in playing at the ball or in the legitimate defence of his wicket, the 
striker interferes with the wicket-keeper, he shall not be out except as 
provided for in clause 37.3 (Obstructing a ball from being caught).
 28 THE FIELDER
 28.1 Protective equipment
	 	 No	fielder	other	than	the	wicket-keeper	shall	be	permitted	to	wear	
gloves or external leg guards. In addition, protection for the hand or 
fingers	may	be	worn	only	with	the	consent	of	the	umpires.
 28.2 Fielding the ball
	 28.2.1	 A	fielder	may	field	the	ball	with	any	part	of	his	person	(see	
paragraph 12 of Appendix A), except as in clause 28.2.1.2. 
However,	he	will	be	deemed	to	have	fielded	the	ball	illegally	if,	
while the ball is in play he wilfully:
	 28.2.1.1	 uses	anything	other	than	part	of	his	person	to	field	
the ball.
 28.2.1.2 extends his clothing with his hands and uses this to 
field	the	ball.
 28.2.1.3 discards a piece of clothing, equipment or any  
other object which subsequently makes contact  
with the ball.
	 28.2.2	 It	is	not	illegal	fielding	if	the	ball	in	play	makes	contact	with	a	
piece of clothing, equipment or any other object which has 
accidentally	fallen	from	the	fielder’s	person.
	 28.2.3	 If	a	fielder	illegally	fields	the	ball,	the	ball	shall	immediately	
become dead and
 -  the penalty for a No ball or a Wide shall stand.
 -  any runs completed by the batsmen shall be credited to the 
batting side, together with the run in progress if the batsmen 
had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
 -  the ball shall not count as one of the over.
  In addition the umpire shall:
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.
	 -		inform	the	other	umpire	and	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
of the reason for this action.
 -  inform the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, the captain 
of the batting side of what has occurred.
  27.2 Gloves
 27.2.1 If, as permitted under clause 27.1, the wicket-keeper wears 
gloves,	they	shall	have	no	webbing	between	the	fingers	except	
joining	index	finger	and	thumb,	where	webbing	may	be	inserted	
as a means of support.
 27.2.2 If used, the webbing shall be a single piece of non-stretch 
material which, although it may have facing material attached, 
shall have no reinforcements or tucks.
 27.2.3 The top edge of the webbing shall not protrude beyond the 
straight	line	joining	the	top	of	the	index	finger	to	the	top	of	the	
thumb and shall be taut when a hand wearing the glove has the 
thumb fully extended. See paragraph 3 of Appendix B.
 27.3 Position of wicket-keeper
 27.3.1 The wicket-keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket at the 
striker’s end from the moment the ball comes into play until a 
ball delivered by the bowler:
  touches the bat or person of the striker; or
  passes the wicket at the striker’s end; or
  the striker attempts a run.
 27.3.2 In the event of the wicket-keeper contravening this clause, 
the striker’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball as soon as 
applicable after the delivery of the ball.
 27.4 Movement by wicket-keeper
 27.4.1 After the ball comes into play and before it reaches the striker, 
it	is	unfair	if	the	wicket-keeper	significantly	alters	his	position	in	
relation to the striker’s wicket, except for the following:
 27.4.1.1 movement of a few paces forward for a slower 
delivery, unless in so doing it brings him within reach 
of the wicket.
 27.4.1.2 lateral movement in response to the direction in 
which the ball has been delivered.
 27.4.1.3 movement in response to the stroke that the striker is 
playing or that his actions suggest he intends to play. 
However the provisions of clause 27.3 shall apply.
 27.4.2 In the event of unfair movement by the wicket-keeper, either 
umpire shall call and signal Dead ball.
 27.5 Restriction on actions of wicket-keeper
  If, in the opinion of either umpire, the wicket-keeper interferes with 
the striker’s right to play the ball and to guard his wicket, clause 20.4.2.6 
(Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball) shall apply.
  If, however, either umpire considers that the interference by the wicket-
keeper was wilful, then clause 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract 
striker) shall also apply.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.62 3.63 28.5 Fielders not to encroach on pitch
  While the ball is in play and until the ball has made contact with the 
striker’s	bat	or	person,	or	has	passed	the	striker’s	bat,	no	fielder,	other	
than the bowler, may have any part of his person grounded on or 
extended over the pitch.
	 	 In	the	event	of	infringement	of	this	clause	by	any	fielder	other	than	the	
wicket-keeper, the bowler’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball as 
soon as possible after delivery of the ball. Note, however, clause 27.3 
(Position of wicket-keeper).
	 28.6	 Movement	by	any	fielder	other	than	the	wicket-keeper
	 28.6.1	 Any	movement	by	any	fielder,	excluding	the	wicket-keeper,	
after the ball comes into play and before the ball reaches the 
striker, is unfair except for the following:
 28.6.1.1 minor adjustments to stance or position in relation to 
the striker’s wicket.
	 28.6.1.2	 movement	by	any	fielder,	other	than	a	close	fielder,	
towards the striker or the striker’s wicket that does 
not	significantly	alter	the	position	of	the	fielder.
	 28.6.1.3	 movement	by	any	fielder	in	response	to	the	stroke	
that the striker is playing or that his actions suggest 
he intends to play.
	 28.6.2	 In	all	circumstances	clause	28.4	(Limitation	of	on	side	fielders)	
shall apply.
 28.6.3 In the event of such unfair movement, either umpire shall call 
and signal Dead ball.
 28.6.4  Note also the provisions of clause 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to 
distract striker). See also clause 27.4 (Movement by wicket-keeper).
 29 THE WICKET IS DOWN
 29.1 Wicket put down
 29.1.1 The wicket is put down if a bail is completely removed from the 
top of the stumps, or a stump is struck out of the ground,
 29.1.1.1 by the ball,
 29.1.1.2 by the striker’s bat if held or by any part of the bat 
that he is holding,
 29.1.1.3 for the purpose of this clause only, by the striker’s 
bat not in hand, or by any part of the bat which has 
become detached,
 29.1.1.4 by the striker’s person or by any part of his clothing or 
equipment becoming detached from his person,
	 29.1.1.5	 by	a	fielder	with	his	hand	or	arm,	providing	that	the	
ball is held in the hand or hands so used, or in the 
hand of the arm so used.
	 29.1.1.6	 The	wicket	is	also	put	down	if	a	fielder	strikes	or	pulls	
a stump out of the ground as in clause 29.1.1.5.	 28.3	 Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side
	 28.3.1	 Protective	helmets,	when	not	in	use	by	fielders,	may	not	be	
placed on the ground, above the surface except behind the 
wicket-keeper and in line with both sets of stumps.
 28.3.2 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described in 
clause 28.3.1,
 28.3.2.1 the ball shall become dead
  and, subject to clause 28.3.3,
 28.3.2.2 an award of 5 Penalty runs shall be made to the 
batting side;
 28.3.2.3 any runs completed by the batsmen before the 
ball strikes the protective helmet shall be scored, 
together with the run in progress if the batsmen had 
already crossed at the instant of the ball striking the 
protective helmet.
 28.3.3 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described in 
clause 28.3.1, unless the circumstances of clause 23.3 (Leg byes 
not to be awarded) or clause 34 (Hit the ball twice), apply, the 
umpire shall:
 -  permit the batsmen’s runs as in clause 28.3.2.3 to be scored
 -  signal No ball or Wide ball to the scorers if applicable
 -  award 5 Penalty runs as in clause 28.3.2.2
 -  award any other Penalty runs due to the batting side.
 28.3.4 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described 
in clause 28.3.1, and the circumstances of clause 23.3 (Leg byes 
not to be awarded) or clause 34 (Hit the ball twice) apply, the 
umpire shall:
 -  disallow all runs to the batting side
 -  return any not out batsman to his original end
 -  signal No ball or Wide ball to the scorers if applicable
 -  award any 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for Penalty 
runs under clause 28.3.2.
	 28.4	 Limitation	of	on	side	fielders
  At the instant of the bowler’s delivery there shall not be more than two 
fielders,	other	than	the	wicket-keeper,	behind	the	popping	crease	on	
the	on	side.	A	fielder	will	be	considered	to	be	behind	the	popping	crease	
unless the whole of his person whether grounded or in the air is in front 
of this line.
	 	 In	the	event	of	infringement	of	this	clause	by	any	fielder,	the	striker’s	
end umpire shall call and signal No ball.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.64 3.65 30.2 Which is a batsman’s ground
 30.2.1 If only one batsman is within a ground, it is his ground and will 
remain so even if he is later joined there by the other batsman.
 30.2.2 If both batsmen are in the same ground and one of them 
subsequently leaves it, the ground belongs to the batsman who 
remains in it.
 30.2.3 If there is no batsman in either ground, then each ground 
belongs to whichever batsman is nearer to it, or, if the batsmen 
are level, to whichever batsman was nearer to it immediately 
prior to their drawing level.
 30.2.4 If a ground belongs to one batsman then the other ground 
belongs to the other batsman, irrespective of his position.
 30.3 Position of non-striker
  The non-striker, when standing at the bowler’s end, should be 
positioned on the opposite side of the wicket to that from which the 
ball is being delivered, unless a request to do otherwise is granted by 
the umpire.
 31 APPEALS
 31.1 Umpire not to give batsman out without an appeal
  Neither umpire shall give a batsman out, even though he may be out 
under	these	Playing	Conditions,	unless	appealed	to	by	a	fielder.	This	
shall not debar a batsman who is out under these Playing Conditions 
from leaving the wicket without an appeal having been made. Note, 
however, the provisions of clause 31.7.
 31.2 Batsman dismissed
  A batsman is dismissed if he is
  either given out by an umpire, on appeal
  or out under these Playing Conditions and leaves the wicket as in  
clause 31.1.
 31.3 Timing of appeals
  For an appeal to be valid, it must be made before the bowler begins his 
run-up or, if there is no run-up, his bowling action to deliver the next 
ball, and before Time has been called.
  The call of Over does not invalidate an appeal made prior to the start of 
the following over, provided Time has not been called. See clauses 12.2 
(Call of Time) and 17.2 (Start of an over).
 31.4 Appeal “How’s That?”
  An appeal “How’s That?” covers all ways of being out.
  29.1.2 The disturbance of a bail, whether temporary or not, shall not 
constitute its complete removal from the top of the stumps, but 
if a bail in falling lodges between two of the stumps this shall be 
regarded as complete removal.
 29.2 One bail off
	 	 If	one	bail	is	off,	it	shall	be	sufficient	for	the	purpose	of	putting	the	
wicket down to remove the remaining bail or to strike or pull any of the 
three stumps out of the ground, in any of the ways stated in clause 29.1.
 29.3 Remaking wicket
  If a wicket is broken or put down while the ball is in play, it shall not be 
remade by an umpire until the ball is dead. See clause 20 (Dead ball). 
Any	fielder	may,	however,	while	the	ball	is	in	play,
 -  replace a bail or bails on top of the stumps.
 -  put back one or more stumps into the ground where the wicket 
originally stood.
 29.4 Dispensing with bails
  If the umpires have agreed to dispense with bails in accordance with 
clause 8.4 (Dispensing with bails), it is for the umpire concerned to 
decide whether or not the wicket has been put down.
 29.4.1  After a decision to play without bails, the wicket has been put 
down	if	the	umpire	concerned	is	satisfied	that	the	wicket	has 	
been struck by the ball, by the striker’s bat, person or items of his 
clothing or equipment as described in clauses 29.1.1.2, 29.1.1.3 or 
29.1.1.4,	or	by	a	fielder	in	the	manner	described	in	clause	29.1.1.5.
 29.4.2 If the wicket has already been broken or put down, clause 
29.4.1 shall apply to any stump or stumps still in the ground. 
Any	fielder	may	replace	a	stump	or	stumps,	in	accordance	with	
clause 29.3, in order to have an opportunity of putting the 
wicket down.
 30 BATSMAN OUT OF HIS GROUND
 30.1 When out of his ground
 30.1.1 A batsman shall be considered to be out of his ground unless 
some part of his person or bat is grounded behind the popping 
crease at that end.
 30.1.2 However, a batsman shall not be considered to be out of his 
ground if, in running or diving towards his ground and beyond, 
and having grounded some part of his person or bat beyond the 
popping crease, there is subsequent loss of contact between 
the ground and any part of his person or bat, or between the 
bat and person.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.66 3.67 33 CAUGHT
 33.1 Out Caught
  The striker is out Caught if a ball delivered by the bowler, not being a No 
ball, touches his bat without having previously been in contact with any 
fielder,	and	is	subsequently	held	by	a	fielder	as	a	fair	catch,	as	described	
in clauses 33.2 and 33.3, before it touches the ground.
 33.2 A fair catch
 33.2.1 A catch will be fair only if, in every case
  either the ball, at any time
	 	 or	any	fielder	in	contact	with	the	ball,
  is not grounded beyond the boundary before the catch is 
completed. Note clauses 19.4 (Ball grounded beyond the 
boundary) and 19.5 (Fielder grounded beyond the boundary).
 33.2.2 Furthermore, a catch will be fair if any of the following 
conditions applies:
	 33.2.2.1	 the	ball	is	held	in	the	hand	or	hands	of	a	fielder,	even	
if the hand holding the ball is touching the ground, 
or is hugged to the body, or lodges in the external 
protective	equipment	worn	by	a	fielder,	or	lodges	
accidentally	in	a	fielder’s	clothing.
	 33.2.2.2	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	been	lawfully	
struck more than once by the striker, but only if it has 
not	been	grounded	since	it	was	first	struck.	See	clause	
34 (Hit the ball twice).
	 33.2.2.3	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	touched	the	wicket, 	
an	umpire,	another	fielder	or	the	other	batsman.
	 33.2.2.4	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	crossed	the	
boundary in the air, provided that the conditions in 
clause 33.2.1 are met.
 33.2.2.5  the ball is caught off an obstruction within the boundary 
that is not designated a boundary by the umpires.
 33.3 Making a catch
	 	 The	act	of	making	a	catch	shall	start	from	the	time	when	the	ball	first	
comes	into	contact	with	a	fielder’s	person	and	shall	end	when	a	fielder	
obtains complete control over both the ball and his own movement.
 33.4 No runs to be scored
  If the striker is dismissed Caught, runs from that delivery completed by 
the batsmen before the completion of the catch shall not be scored but 
any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall stand. Clause 18.12 
(Batsman returning to wicket he has left) shall apply from the instant of 
the completion of the catch.
 33.5 Caught to take precedence
  If the criteria of clause 33.1 are met and the striker is not out Bowled, 
then he is out Caught, even though a decision against either batsman 
for	another	method	of	dismissal	would	be	justified. 31.5 Answering appeals
  The striker’s end umpire shall answer all appeals arising out of any of clauses 
35 (Hit wicket), 39 (Stumped) or 38 (Run out) when this occurs at the 
wicket-keeper’s end. The bowler’s end umpire shall answer all other appeals.
  When an appeal is made, each umpire shall answer on any matter that 
falls within his jurisdiction.
  When a batsman has been given Not out, either umpire may answer an 
appeal, made in accordance with clause 31.3, if it is on a further matter 
and is within his jurisdiction.
 31.6 Consultation by umpires
  Each umpire shall answer appeals on matters within his own jurisdiction. 
If an umpire is doubtful about any point that the other umpire may have 
been in a better position to see, he/she shall consult the latter on this 
point of fact and shall then give the decision. If, after consultation, there 
is still doubt remaining, the decision shall be Not out.
 31.7 Batsman leaving the wicket under a misapprehension
	 	 An	umpire	shall	intervene	if	satisfied	that	a	batsman,	not	having	been	
given out, has left the wicket under a misapprehension of being out. The 
umpire intervening shall call and signal Dead ball to prevent any further 
action	by	the	fielding	side	and	shall	recall	the	batsman.
  A batsman may be recalled at any time up to the instant when the ball 
comes	into	play	for	the	next	delivery,	unless	it	is	the	final	wicket	of	the	
innings, in which case it should be up to the instant when the umpires 
leave	the	field.
 31.8 Withdrawal of an appeal
	 	 The	captain	of	the	fielding	side	may	withdraw	an	appeal	only	after	
obtaining the consent of the umpire within whose jurisdiction the 
appeal falls. If such consent is given, the umpire concerned shall, if 
applicable, revoke the decision and recall the batsman.
  The withdrawal of an appeal must be before the instant when the 
ball comes into play for the next delivery or, if the innings has been 
completed,	the	instant	when	the	umpires	leave	the	field.
 32 BOWLED
 32.1 Out Bowled
 32.1.1 The striker is out Bowled if his wicket is put down by a ball 
delivered	by	the	bowler,	not	being	a	No	ball,	even	if	it	first	
touches the striker’s bat or person.
 32.1.2 However, the striker shall not be out Bowled if before striking 
the wicket the ball has been in contact with any other player 
or an umpire. The striker will, however, be subject to clauses 37 
(Obstructing	the	field),	38	(Run	out)	and	39	(Stumped).
 32.2 Bowled to take precedence
  The striker is out Bowled if his wicket is put down as in clause 32.1, even 
though a decision against him for any other method of dismissal would 
be	justified.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.68 3.69 35 HIT WICKET
 35.1 Out Hit wicket
 35.1.1 The striker is out Hit wicket if, after the bowler has entered 
the delivery stride and while the ball is in play, his wicket is 
put down by either the striker’s bat or person as described 
in clauses 29.1.1.2 to 29.1.1.4 (Wicket put down) in any of the 
following circumstances:
 35.1.1.1 in the course of any action taken by him in preparing 
to receive or in receiving a delivery,
	 35.1.1.2	 in	setting	off	for	the	first	run	immediately	after	
playing or playing at the ball,
 35.1.1.3 if no attempt is made to play the ball, in setting off 
for	the	first	run,	providing	that	in	the	opinion	of	the	
umpire this is immediately after the striker has had 
the opportunity of playing the ball,
 35.1.1.4 in lawfully making a second or further stroke for the 
purpose of guarding his wicket within the provisions 
of clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).
 35.1.2 If the striker puts his wicket down in any of the ways described 
in clauses 29.1.1.2 to 29.1.1.4 before the bowler has entered the 
delivery stride, either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball.
 35.2 Not out Hit wicket
  The striker is not out under this clause should his wicket be put down in 
any of the ways referred to in clause 35.1 if any of the following applies:
 -  it occurs after the striker has completed any action in receiving the 
delivery, other than in clauses 35.1.1.2 to 35.1.1.4.
 -  it occurs when the striker is in the act of running, other than setting 
off	immediately	for	the	first	run.
 -  it occurs when the striker is trying to avoid being run out or stumped.
 -  it occurs when the striker is trying to avoid a throw in at any time.
 -  the bowler after entering the delivery stride does not deliver the ball. 
In this case either umpire shall immediately call and signal Dead ball. 
See clause 20.4 (Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball).
 -  the delivery is a No ball.
 36 LEG BEFORE WICKET
 36.1 Out LBW
  The striker is out LBW if all the circumstances set out in clauses 36.1.1 to 
36.1.5 apply:
 36.1.1 The bowler delivers a ball, not being a No ball
 36.1.2 the ball, if it is not intercepted full-pitch, pitches in line between 
wicket and wicket or on the off side of the striker’s wicket
  34 HIT THE BALL TWICE
 34.1 Out Hit the ball twice
 34.1.1 The striker is out Hit the ball twice if, while the ball is in play, it 
strikes any part of his person or is struck by his bat and, before 
the	ball	has	been	touched	by	a	fielder,	the	striker	wilfully	strikes	
it again with his bat or person, other than a hand not holding 
the bat, except for the sole purpose of guarding his wicket. See 
clause	34.3	and	clause	37	(Obstructing	the	field).
	 34.1.2	 For	the	purpose	of	this	clause	‘struck’	or	‘strike’	shall	include	
contact with the person of the striker.
 34.2 Not out Hit the ball twice
  The striker will not be out under this clause if he:
 34.2.1 strikes the ball a second or subsequent time in order to return 
the	ball	to	any	fielder.	
  Note, however, the provisions of clause 37.4 (Returning the ball 
to	a	fielder).
	 34.2.2	 wilfully	strikes	the	ball	after	it	has	touched	a	fielder.	Note,	
however	the	provisions	of	clause	37.1	(Out	Obstructing	the	field).
 34.3 Ball lawfully struck more than once
  The striker may, solely in order to guard his wicket and before the 
ball	has	been	touched	by	a	fielder,	lawfully	strike	the	ball	a	second	or	
subsequent time with the bat, or with any part of his person other than 
a hand not holding the bat. The striker may guard his wicket even if the 
delivery is a No ball.
  However, the striker may not prevent the ball from being caught by 
striking the ball more than once in defence of his wicket. See clause 37.3 
(Obstructing a ball from being caught).
 34.4 Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once
  When the ball is lawfully struck more than once, as permitted in clause 
34.3, if the ball does not become dead for any reason, the umpire shall 
call and signal Dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at 
the	completion	of	the	first	run.	However,	the	umpire	shall	delay	the	call	
of Dead ball to allow the opportunity for a catch to be completed.
  The umpire shall
 -  disallow all runs to the batting side;
 -  return any not out batsman to his original end;
 -  signal No ball to the scorers if applicable; and
 -  award any 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for Penalty runs 
under	clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 34.5 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.70 3.71	 37.2	 Not	out	Obstructing	the	field
	 	 A	batsman	shall	not	be	out	Obstructing	the	field	if
  obstruction or distraction is accidental, or
  obstruction is in order to avoid injury, or
  in the case of the striker, he makes a second or subsequent strike to 
guard his wicket lawfully as in clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than 
once). However, see clause 37.3.
 37.3 Obstructing a ball from being caught
 37.3.1  If the delivery is not a No ball, the striker is out Obstructing 
the	field	if	wilful	obstruction	or	distraction	by	either	batsman	
prevents the striker being out Caught. 
 37.3.2  Clause 37.3.1 shall apply even if an obstruction is caused by the 
striker in lawfully guarding his wicket under the provision of 
Clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once). 
 37.3.3  If an obstruction or distraction takes place from a No ball then 
the batsman who caused the obstruction or distraction will be 
out	Obstructing	the	field.	
 37.3.4  Clause 37.3.3 shall not apply if the striker obstructs while 
instinctively defending his wicket with a lawful second strike.
	 37.4	 Returning	the	ball	to	a	fielder
	 	 Either	batsman	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	at	any	time	while	the	ball	
is	in	play	and,	without	the	consent	of	a	fielder,	he	uses	the	bat	or	any	
part	of	his	person	to	return	the	ball	to	any	fielder.
 37.5 Runs scored
	 	 When	either	batsman	is	dismissed	Obstructing	the	field,
 37.5.1 unless the obstruction prevents a catch from being made, any 
runs completed by the batsmen before the offence shall be 
scored, together with any runs awarded for penalties to either 
side. See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded for penalties) and 18.8 
(Runs scored when a batsman is dismissed).
 37.5.2 if the obstruction prevents a catch from being made, any runs 
completed by the batsmen shall not be scored but any penalties 
awarded to either side shall stand.
 37.6 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
 38 RUN OUT
 38.1 Out Run out
  Either batsman is out Run out, except as in clause 38.2, if, at any time 
while the ball is in play,
  he is out of his ground
	 	 and	his	wicket	is	fairly	put	down	by	the	action	of	a	fielder
  even though No ball has been called, except in the circumstances of 
clause 38.2.2.2, and whether or not a run is being attempted. 36.1.3 the ball not having previously touched his bat, the striker 
intercepts the ball, either full-pitch or after pitching, with any 
part of his person
 36.1.4 the point of impact, even if above the level of the bails,
  either is between wicket and wicket
  or if the striker has made no genuine attempt to play the ball 
with the bat, is
  between wicket and wicket or outside the line of the off stump.
 36.1.5 but for the interception, the ball would have hit the wicket.
 36.2 Interception of the ball
 36.2.1 In assessing points of impact in clauses 36.1.3, 36.1.4 and 36.1.5, 
only	the	first	interception	is	to	be	considered.
	 36.2.2	 In	assessing	36.1.3,	if	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	is	not	satisfied	that	
the ball intercepted the batsman’s person before it touched the 
bat, the batsman shall be given Not out.
 36.2.3 In assessing clause 36.1.5, it is to be assumed that the path 
of the ball before interception would have continued after 
interception, irrespective of whether the ball might have 
pitched subsequently or not.
 36.3 Off side of wicket
  The off side of the striker’s wicket shall be determined by the striker’s 
stance at the moment the ball comes into play for that delivery. See 
paragraph 13 of Appendix A.
 37 OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD
 37.1	 Out	Obstructing	the	field
	 37.1.1	 Either	batsman	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	except	in	the	
circumstances of clause 37.2, and while the ball is in play, he 
wilfully	attempts	to	obstruct	or	distract	the	fielding	side	by	
word or action. See also clause 34 (Hit the ball twice).
	 37.1.2	 The	striker	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	except	in	the	
circumstances of clause 37.2, in the act of receiving a ball 
delivered by the bowler, he wilfully strikes the ball with a hand 
not	holding	the	bat.	This	will	apply	whether	it	is	the	first	strike	or	
a second or subsequent strike. The act of receiving the ball shall 
extend both to playing at the ball and to striking the ball more 
than once in defence of his wicket.
 37.1.3 This clause will apply whether or not No ball is called.
 37.1.4 For the avoidance of doubt, if an umpire feels that a batsman, 
in	running	between	the	wickets,	has	significantly	changed	
his direction without probable cause and thereby obstructed 
a	fielder’s	attempt	to	effect	a	run	out,	the	batsman	should,	
on	appeal,	be	given	out,	obstructing	the	field.	It	shall	not	be	
relevant whether a run out would have occurred or not.
  If the change of direction involves the batsman crossing the 
pitch, clause 41.14 shall also apply.
  See also paragraph 2.2 of Appendix D.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.72 3.73 39.2 Ball rebounding from wicket-keeper’s person
  If the wicket is put down by the ball, it shall be regarded as having been 
put down by the wicket-keeper if the ball rebounds on to the stumps 
from any part of the wicket-keeper’s person or equipment or has been 
kicked or thrown on to the stumps by the wicket-keeper.
 39.3 Not out Stumped
 39.3.1 The striker will not be out Stumped if, after having received the 
delivery he has left his ground in order to avoid injury.
 39.3.2 If the striker is not out Stumped he may, except in the 
circumstances of clause 38.2.2.2 (Batsman not out Run out), be 
out Run out if the conditions of clause 38.1 (Out Run out) apply.
 40 TIMED OUT
 40.1 Out Timed out
 40.1.1 After the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batsman, the 
incoming batsman must, unless Time has been called, be in 
position to take guard or for the other batsman to be ready 
to receive the next ball within 3 minutes of the dismissal or 
retirement. If this requirement is not met, the incoming batsman 
will be out, Timed out.
 40.1.2 In the event of an extended delay in which no batsman comes 
to the wicket, the umpires shall adopt the procedure of clause 
16.2 (ICC Match Referee awarding a match). For the purposes of 
that clause the start of the action shall be taken as the expiry of 
the 3 minutes referred to above.
 40.2 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
 41 UNFAIR PLAY
 41.1 Fair and unfair play – responsibility of captains
  The captains are responsible for ensuring that play is conducted within 
the Spirit of Cricket, as well as within these Playing Conditions.
 41.2 Fair and unfair play – responsibility of umpires
 41.2.1 The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play. If 
either umpire considers that any action by a player, not covered 
by these Playing Conditions, is unfair, he/she shall call and signal 
Dead ball, if appropriate, as soon as it becomes clear that the 
call will not disadvantage the non-offending side, and report 
the matter to the other umpire.
	 41.2.1.1	 If	this	is	a	first	offence	by	that	side,	the	bowler’s	end	
umpire shall then
 -  summon the offending player’s captain and issue 
a	first	and	final	warning	which	shall	apply	to	all 	
members of the team for the remainder of the match.
 -  warn the offending player’s captain that any further 
such offence by any member of his team shall result 
in the award of 5 Penalty runs to the opposing team. 38.2 Batsman not out Run out
 38.2.1 A batsman is not out Run out in the circumstances of clauses 
38.2.1.1 or 38.2.1.2.
 38.2.1.1 He has been within his ground and has subsequently 
left it to avoid injury, when the wicket is put down.
  Note also the provisions of clause 30.1.2 (When out of 
his ground).
 38.2.1.2 The ball, delivered by the bowler, has not made 
contact	with	a	fielder	before	the	wicket	is	put	down.
 38.2.2 The striker is not out Run out in any of the circumstances in 
clauses 38.2.2.1 and 38.2.2.2.
 38.2.2.1 He is out Stumped. See clause 39.1.2 (Out Stumped).
 38.2.2.2 No ball has been called
  and he is out of his ground not attempting a run
  and the wicket is fairly put down by the wicket-
keeper	without	the	intervention	of	another	fielder.
 38.3 Which batsman is out
  The batsman out in the circumstances of clause 38.1 is the one whose 
ground is at the end where the wicket is put down. See clause 30.2 
(Which is a batsman’s ground).
 38.4 Runs scored
  If either batsman is dismissed Run out, the run in progress when the 
wicket is put down shall not be scored, but any runs completed by the 
batsmen shall stand, together with any runs for penalties awarded to 
either side. See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded for penalties) and 18.8 (Runs 
scored when a batsman is dismissed).
 38.5 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
 39 STUMPED
 39.1 Out Stumped
 39.1.1 The striker is out Stumped, except as in clause 39.3, if:
  a ball which is delivered is not called No ball
  and he is out of his ground, other than as in clause 39.3.1
  and he has not attempted a run
  when his wicket is fairly put down by the wicket-keeper 
without	the	intervention	of	another	fielder.	Note,	however	
clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper).
 39.1.2 The striker is out Stumped if all the conditions of clause 39.1.1 are 
satisfied,	even	though	a	decision	of	Run	out	would	be	justified.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.74 3.75 41.3.5.1.2 If the umpires together agree that the 
condition of the ball has been unfairly 
changed by a member or members of the 
batting side, the umpires shall select and 
bring into use immediately, a ball which 
shall have wear comparable to that of 
the previous ball immediately prior to the 
contravention.
 41.3.5.2 Additionally, the bowler’s end umpire shall:
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing side.
 -  if appropriate, inform the batsmen at the wicket 
and	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	that	the	ball	has	
been changed and the reason for their action.
 -  inform the captain of the batting side as soon  
as practicable of what has occurred.
  The umpires shall then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the player(s) concerned.
 41.3.6 If it is not possible to identify the player(s) responsible for 
changing the condition of the ball, the umpires shall:
 41.3.6.1  Change the ball forthwith. The umpires shall choose 
the replacement ball for one of similar wear and of the 
same brand as the ball in use prior to the contravention.
 41.3.6.2 The bowler’s end umpire shall issue the captain with a 
first	and	final	warning,	and
 41.3.6.3 Advise the captain that should there be any further 
instances of changing the condition of the ball by that 
team during the remainder of the series, clause 41.3.5.2 
above will be adopted, with the captain deemed to 
be the player responsible for the contravention.
 41.4 Deliberate attempt to distract striker
	 41.4.1	 It	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	deliberately	to	attempt	to	distract	the	
striker while he is preparing to receive or receiving a delivery.
	 41.4.2	 If	either	umpire	considers	that	any	action	by	a	fielder	is	such	an	
attempt, he/she shall immediately call and signal Dead ball and 
inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. The bowler’s 
end umpire shall
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.
	 -		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side,	the	batsmen	and,	as	
soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of the 
reason for the action.
  Neither batsman shall be dismissed from that delivery and the 
ball shall not count as one of the over.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against	the	fielder	concerned. 41.2.1.2 If this is a second or subsequent offence by that side, 
the bowler’s end umpire shall then
 -  summon the offending player’s captain and inform 
him that there has been a further such offence.
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing side.
 41.2.1.3 The umpires may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the player concerned.
 41.3 The match ball – changing its condition
 41.3.1 The umpires shall make frequent and irregular inspections of the 
ball. In addition, they shall immediately inspect the ball if they 
suspect anyone of attempting to change the condition of the 
ball, except as permitted in clause 41.3.2.
 41.3.2 It is an offence for any player to take any action which changes 
the condition of the ball.
  Except in carrying out his normal duties, a batsman is not allowed 
to wilfully damage the ball other than, when the ball is in play, in 
striking it with the bat. See also clause 5.5 (Damage to the ball).
	 	 A	fielder	may,	however:
 41.3.2.1 polish the ball on his clothing provided that no 
artificial	substance	is	used	and	that	such	polishing	
wastes no time.
 41.3.2.2 remove mud from the ball under the supervision of  
an umpire.
 41.3.2.3 dry a wet ball on a piece of cloth that has been 
approved by the umpires.
 41.3.3 The umpires shall consider the condition of the ball to have 
been unfairly changed if any action by any player does not 
comply with the conditions in clause 41.3.2.
 41.3.4 If the umpires together agree that the condition of the ball has 
been unfairly changed by a member or members of either side, 
or that its condition is inconsistent with the use it has received, 
they shall consider that there has been a contravention of 
this clause and decide together whether they can identify the 
player(s) responsible for such conduct.
 41.3.5 If it is possible to identify the player(s) responsible for changing 
the condition of the ball, the umpires shall:
 41.3.5.1 Change the ball forthwith. 
 41.3.5.1.1 If the umpires together agree that the 
condition of the ball has been unfairly 
changed by a member or members of the 
fielding	side,	the	batsman	at	the	wicket	
shall choose the replacement ball from 
a selection of six other balls of various 
degrees of usage (including a new ball)  
and of the same brand as the ball in use 
prior to the contravention.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.76 3.77	 	 In	the	first	instance	the	umpire	decides	that	the	bowling	of	
short pitched deliveries has become dangerous under 41.6.1:
 41.6.1.1 The umpire shall call and signal No ball, and when 
the ball is dead, caution the bowler and inform the 
other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	
the batsmen of what has occurred. This caution shall 
apply to that bowler throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.2 If there is a second instance, the umpire shall repeat 
the above procedure and indicate to the bowler that 
this	is	a	final	warning,	which	shall	apply	to	that	bowler	
throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.3 Should there be any further instance by the same 
bowler in that innings, the umpire shall:
 -  call and signal No ball
 -  when the ball is dead, direct the captain of the 
fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	immediately	
from bowling
 -  inform the other umpire for the reason for  
this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to 
bowl again in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another 
bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part of the 
previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the 
next over.
 -  The umpire shall report the occurrence to the 
batsmen and, as soon as practicable, to the captain 
of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the bowler concerned.
 41.6.2 A bowler shall be limited to two fast short-pitched deliveries 
per over.
	 41.6.3	 A	fast	short-pitched	delivery	is	defined	as	a	ball,	which	passes	
or would have passed above the shoulder height of the striker 
standing upright at the popping crease.
 41.6.4 The umpire at the bowler’s end shall advise the bowler and the 
batsman on strike when each fast short pitched delivery has 
been bowled.
 41.6.5 In addition, a ball that passes above head height of the 
batsman, standing upright at the popping crease, that prevents 
him from being able to hit it with his bat by means of a normal 
cricket stroke shall be called a Wide. See also clause 22.1.1.2
 41.6.5.1 For the avoidance of doubt any fast short pitched 
delivery that is called a Wide under this playing 
condition shall also count as one of the allowable 
short pitched deliveries in that over. 41.5 Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batsman
	 41.5.1	 In	addition	to	clause	41.4,	it	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	wilfully	to	
attempt, by word or action, to distract, deceive or obstruct 
either batsman after the striker has received the ball.
 41.5.2 It is for either one of the umpires to decide whether any 
distraction, deception or obstruction is wilful or not.
	 41.5.3	 If	either	umpire	considers	that	a	fielder	has	caused	or	attempted	
to cause such a distraction, deception or obstruction, he/she 
shall immediately call and signal Dead ball and inform the other 
umpire of the reason for the call.
 41.5.4 Neither batsman shall be dismissed from that delivery.
 41.5.5 If an obstruction involves physical contact, the umpires 
together shall decide whether or not an offence under clause 42 
(Players’ conduct) has been committed.
 41.5.5.1 If an offence under clause 42 (Players’ conduct) 
has been committed, they shall apply the relevant 
procedures in clause 42 and shall also apply each of 
clauses 41.5.7 to 41.5.9.
 41.5.5.2 If they consider that there has been no offence under 
clause 42 (Players’ conduct), they shall apply each of 
clauses 41.5.6 to 41.5.10.
 41.5.6 The bowler’s end umpire shall;
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.
	 -		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	reason	for	this	
action and as soon as practicable inform the captain of the 
batting side.
 41.5.7 The ball shall not count as one of the over.
 41.5.8 Any runs completed by the batsmen before the offence shall  
be scored, together with any runs for penalties awarded to 
either side. Additionally, the run in progress shall be scored 
whether or not the batsmen had already crossed at the instant 
of the offence.
 41.5.9 The batsmen at the wicket shall decide which of them is to face 
the next delivery.
 41.5.10 The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.6 Bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries
 41.6.1 Notwithstanding clause 41.6.2, the bowling of short pitched 
deliveries is dangerous if the bowler’s end umpire considers 
that, taking into consideration the skill of the striker, by their 
speed,	length,	height	and	direction	they	are	likely	to	inflict	
physical injury on him. The fact that the striker is wearing 
protective equipment shall be disregarded.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.78 3.79 41.7.2 Should there be any further instance (where a dangerous 
non-pitching	delivery	is	bowled	and	is	considered	likely	to	inflict	
physical injury on the batsman) by the same bowler in that 
innings, the umpire shall:
 -  call and signal No ball
	 -		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling
 -  inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in 
that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, 
who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over, nor 
be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.
  Additionally the umpire shall
 -  report the occurrence to the batsmen and, as soon as 
practicable, to the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the bowler concerned.
 41.7.3 The warning sequence in clauses 41.7.1 and 41.7.2 is independent 
of the warning and action sequence in clause 41.6.
 41.7.4 If the umpire considers that a bowler deliberately bowled a high 
full-pitched delivery, deemed to be dangerous and unfair as 
defined	in	clause	41.7.1,	then	the	caution	and	warning	in	clause	
41.7.1 shall be dispensed with. The umpire shall
 -  immediately call and signal No ball.
	 -		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling and inform the 
other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in 
that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, 
who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over, nor 
be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.
 -  report the occurrence to the batsmen and, as soon as 
practicable, to the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the bowler concerned. 41.6.6 In the event of a bowler bowling more than two fast short-
pitched	deliveries	in	an	over	as	defined	in	clause	41.6.3	above,	
the umpire at the bowler’s end shall call and signal No ball on 
each occasion. A differential signal shall be used to signify a fast 
short	pitched	delivery.	The	umpire	shall	call	and	signal	‘No	ball’	
and then tap the head with the other hand.
 41.6.7 If a bowler delivers a third fast short pitched ball in an over, 
the umpire, after the call of No ball and when the ball is dead, 
shall caution the bowler, inform the other umpire, the captain 
of	the	fielding	side	and	the	batsmen	at	the	wicket	of	what	has	
occurred. This caution shall apply throughout the innings.
 41.6.8 If there is a second instance of the bowler being No balled 
in the innings for bowling more than two fast short pitched 
deliveries in an over, the umpire shall advise the bowler that this 
is	his	final	warning	for	the	innings.
 41.6.9 Should there be any further instance by the same bowler in that 
innings, the umpire shall:
 -  call and signal No ball
	 -		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling
 -  inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again 
in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, 
who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over, 
nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.
 - The umpire shall report the occurrence to the batsmen and, 
as soon as practicable, to the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the bowler concerned.
 41.6.10 Should the umpires initiate the caution and warning procedures 
set out in clauses 41.6.1.3, 41.6.9, and 41.7, such cautions and 
warnings are not to be cumulative.
 41.7 Bowling of dangerous and unfair non-pitching deliveries
 41.7.1 Any delivery, which passes or would have passed, without 
pitching, above waist height of the striker standing upright at 
the popping crease, is to be deemed to be unfair, whether or 
not	it	is	likely	to	inflict	physical	injury	on	the	striker.	If	the	bowler	
bowls such a delivery the umpire shall immediately call and 
signal No ball.
  If, in the opinion of the umpire, such a delivery is considered 
likely	to	inflict	physical	injury	on	the	batsman	by	its	speed	and	
direction, it shall be considered dangerous. When the ball is 
dead the umpire shall caution the bowler, indicating that this is 
a	first	and	final	warning.	The	umpire	shall	also	inform	the	other	
umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	batsmen	 of	what	
has occurred. This caution shall apply to that bowler throughout 
the innings.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.80 3.81 41.10 Batsman wasting time
 41.10.1 It is unfair for a batsman to waste time. In normal circumstances, 
the striker should always be ready to take strike when the 
bowler is ready to start his run-up.
  In addition, an incoming batsman should be in position to take 
guard or his partner ready to receive the next ball within 2 
minutes of the fall of the previous wicket.
 41.10.2 Should either batsman waste time by failing to meet this 
requirement, or in any other way, the following procedure shall 
be	adopted.	At	the	first	instance,	either	before	the	bowler	starts	
his run-up or when the ball becomes dead, as appropriate, the 
umpire shall
	 -		warn	both	batsmen	and	indicate	that	this	is	a	first	and	final	
warning. This warning shall apply throughout the innings. The 
umpire shall so inform each incoming batsman.
 -  inform the other umpire of what has occurred.
	 -		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
 41.10.3 If there is any further time wasting by any batsman in that 
innings, the umpire shall, at the appropriate time while the ball 
is dead
	 -		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
 -  inform the other umpire of the reason for this action.
	 -		inform	the	other	batsman,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of 
what has occurred.
  If the umpires believe that the act of time wasting was deemed 
to be deliberate or repetitive, they may lodge a report under 
the ICC Code of Conduct. In such circumstances the batsman 
concerned will be charged.
 41.11 The protected area
	 	 The	protected	area	is	defined	as	that	area	of	the	pitch	contained	within	
a rectangle bounded at each end by imaginary lines parallel to the 
popping creases and 5 ft/1.52 m in front of each, and on the sides by 
imaginary lines, one each side of the imaginary line joining the centres 
of the two middle stumps, each parallel to it and 1 ft/30.48 cm from it.
 41.12 Fielder damaging the pitch
 41.12.1 It is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the 
pitch.	A	fielder	will	be	deemed	to	be	causing	avoidable	damage	
if either umpire considers that his presence on the pitch is 
without reasonable cause. 41.8 Bowling of deliberate front-foot No ball
  If the umpire considers that the bowler has delivered a deliberate 
front-foot No ball, he/she shall:
 -  immediately call and signal No ball.
	 -		 when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling
 -  inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in  
that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, who shall 
neither have bowled any part of the previous over, nor be allowed to 
bowl any part of the next over.
 -  report the occurrence to the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, to 
the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against 
the bowler concerned.
	 41.9	 Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	side
	 41.9.1	 It	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	to	waste	time.
 41.9.2 If either umpire considers that the progress of an over is 
unnecessarily slow, or time is being wasted in any other way, 
by	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	or	by	any	other	fielder,	at	the	
first	instance	the	umpire	concerned	shall:
 -  if the ball is in play, call and signal Dead ball.
 -  inform the other umpire of what has occurred.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then:
	 -		warn	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side,	indicating	that	this	is	a	
first	and	final	warning.
 -  inform the batsmen of what has occurred.
 41.9.3 If either umpire considers that there is any further waste of time 
in	that	innings	by	any	fielder,	the	umpire	concerned	shall:
 -  if the ball is in play, call and signal Dead ball.
 -  inform the other umpire of what has occurred.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then award 5 Penalty runs to the 
batting	side	and	inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	
reason for this action.
  Additionally the umpire shall inform the batsmen and, as soon as is 
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
  If the umpires believe that the act of time wasting was 
deliberate or repetitive, they may lodge a report under the ICC 
Code of Conduct. In such circumstances the Captain and/or any 
individual	members	of	the	fielding	team	responsible	for	the	time	
wasting will be charged.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.82 3.83 -  inform the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, the captain 
of the batting side of what has occurred.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the bowler concerned.
 41.14 Batsman damaging the pitch
 41.14.1 It is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch. 
If the striker enters the protected area in playing or playing 
at the ball, he must move from it immediately thereafter. A 
batsman will be deemed to be causing avoidable damage 
if either umpire considers that his presence on the pitch is 
without reasonable cause.
 41.14.2 If either batsman causes deliberate or avoidable damage to 
the	pitch,	other	than	as	in	clause	41.15,	at	the	first	instance	the	
umpire seeing the contravention shall, when the ball is dead, 
inform the other umpire of the occurrence. The bowler’s end 
umpire shall then
 -  warn both batsmen that the practice is unfair and indicate 
that	this	is	a	first	and	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	apply	
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform each 
incoming batsman.
	 -		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
 41.14.3 If there is any further instance of avoidable damage to the 
pitch by any batsman in that innings, the umpire seeing the 
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall
 -  disallow all runs to the batting side
 -  return any not out batsman to his original end
 -  signal No ball or Wide to the scorers if applicable.
	 -		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
 -  award any other 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for 
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side).
	 -	 Inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the batsman concerned.
 	 41.12.2	 If	a	fielder	causes	avoidable	damage	to	the	pitch,	other	than	
as	in	clause	41.13.1,	at	the	first	instance	the	umpire	seeing	the	
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire. The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 -		caution	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	indicate	that	this	
is	a	first	and	final	warning.	 This	warning	shall	apply	throughout	
the innings.
 -  inform the batsmen of what has occurred.
 41.12.3 If, in that innings, there is any further instance of avoidable 
damage	to	the	pitch,	by	any	fielder,	the	umpire	seeing	the	
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire. The bowler’s end umpire shall then
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.
  Additionally the umpire shall
	 -		inform	the	fielding	captain	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
 -  inform the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, the captain 
of the batting side of what has occurred.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate	against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.13 Bowler running on protected area
 41.13.1 It is unfair for a bowler to enter the protected area in his  
follow-through without reasonable cause, whether or not  
the ball is delivered.
	 41.13.2	 If	a	bowler	contravenes	this	clause,	at	the	first	instance	and	
when the ball is dead, the umpire shall
 -  caution the bowler and inform the other umpire of what has 
occurred. This caution shall apply to that bowler throughout 
the innings.
	 -		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	batsmen	of	
what has occurred.
 41.13.3 If, in that innings, the same bowler again contravenes this 
clause, the umpire shall repeat the above procedure indicating 
that	this	is	a	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	also	apply	
throughout the innings.
 41.13.4 If, in that innings, the same bowler contravenes this clause a 
third time, when the ball is dead, the umpire shall,
	 -		direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	
immediately from bowling. If applicable, the over shall be 
completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled 
any part of the previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any 
part of the next over. The bowler taken off shall not be 
allowed to bowl again in that innings.
 -  inform the other umpire of the reason for this action.
 ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.84 3.85 41.17 Batsmen stealing a run
 41.17.1 It is unfair for the batsmen to attempt to steal a run during the 
bowler’s run-up.
	 	 Unless	the	bowler	attempts	to	run	out	either	batsman	–	see	
clauses 41.16 and 21.4 (Bowler throwing towards striker’s end 
before	delivery)	–	the	umpire	shall
 -  call and signal Dead ball as soon as the batsmen cross in such 
an attempt.
 -  inform the other umpire of the reason for this action.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
 -  return the batsmen to their original ends.
	 -		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
	 -		inform	the	batsmen,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	
soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side, of the 
reason for this action.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the batsman concerned.
 41.18 Penalty runs
 41.18.1 When Penalty runs are awarded to either side, when the ball is 
dead the umpire shall signal the Penalty runs to the scorers. See 
clause 2.13 (Signals).
 41.18.2 Penalty runs shall be awarded in each case where these Playing 
Conditions require the award, even if a result has already been 
achieved. See clause 16.6 (Winning hit or extras).
  Note, however, that the restrictions on awarding Penalty runs, 
in clauses 23.3 (Leg byes not to be awarded), 34.4 (Runs scored 
from ball lawfully struck more than once) and 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side),	will	apply.
 41.18.3 When 5 Penalty runs are awarded to the batting side under 
any of clauses 24.4 (Player returning without permission), 28.2 
(Fielding the ball), 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the 
fielding	side)	or	under	41.3,	41.4,	41.5,	41.9	or	41.12,	then
 -  they shall be scored as Penalty extras and shall be in addition 
to any other penalties.
 -  they are awarded when the ball is dead and shall not 
be regarded as runs scored from either the immediately 
preceding delivery or the immediately following delivery, and 
shall be in addition to any runs from those deliveries.
 -  the batsmen shall not change ends solely by reason of the 5 
run penalty.
	 41.18.4	 When	5	Penalty	runs	are	awarded	to	the	fielding	side,	under	
clause 18.5.2 (Deliberate short runs), or under 41.10, 41.14, 41.15 or 
41.17, they shall be added as Penalty extras to that side’s total of 
runs	in	its	most	recently	completed	innings.	If	the	fielding	side	
has not completed an innings, the 5 Penalty runs shall be added 
to the score in its next innings. 41.15 Striker in protected area
 41.15.1 The striker shall not adopt a stance in the protected area or so 
close to it that frequent encroachment is inevitable.
  The striker may mark a guard on the pitch provided that no 
mark is unreasonably close to the protected area.
 41.15.2 If either umpire considers that the striker is in breach of any of 
the conditions in clause 41.15.1, if the bowler has not entered 
the delivery stride, he/she shall immediately call Dead ball, 
otherwise, wait until the ball is dead; he/she shall then inform 
the other umpire of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then:
 -  warn the striker that the practice is unfair and indicate 
that	this	is	a	first	and	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	apply	
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform the 
non-striker and each incoming batsman.
	 -		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
 41.15.3 If there is any further breach of any of the conditions in clause 
41.15.1 by any batsman in that innings, the umpire seeing the 
contravention shall, if the bowler has not entered his delivery 
stride, immediately call and signal Dead ball, otherwise, he/she 
shall wait until the ball is dead and then inform the other umpire 
of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall
 -  disallow all runs to the batting side
 -  return any not out batsman to his original end
 -  signal No ball or Wide to the scorers if applicable.
	 -		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
 -  award any other 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for 
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side).
	 -		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the batsman concerned.
 41.16 Non-striker leaving his ground early
  If the non-striker is out of his ground from the moment the ball comes 
into play to the instant when the bowler would normally have been 
expected to release the ball, the bowler is permitted to attempt to run 
him out. Whether the attempt is successful or not, the ball shall not 
count as one in the over.
  If the bowler fails in an attempt to run out the non-striker, the umpire 
shall call and signal Dead ball as soon as possible.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.86 3.87 42.2.2.3.2 If a bowler is suspended mid-over, then 
that over must be completed by a different 
bowler, who shall not have bowled the 
previous over nor shall be permitted to 
bowl the next over.
 42.2.2.3.3 If the offending player is a batsman he is to 
be	recorded	as	Retired	–	out	in	the	current	
innings, unless he has been dismissed 
under any of clauses 32 to 39, and at the 
commencement of any subsequent innings 
in which his team is the batting side. If no 
further batsman is available to bat, the 
innings is completed.
 42.2.2.4 As soon as practicable, the umpire shall:
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing team
 -  signal the Level 4 penalty to the scorers
 -  call Play.
 42.2.2.5 The umpires shall then report the matter to the ICC 
Match Referee under the ICC Code of Conduct.
	 42.3	 Captain	refusing	to	remove	a	player	from	the	field
 42.3.1 If a captain refuses to carry out an instruction under 42.2.2.3,  
the umpires shall invoke clause 16.3 (Umpires awarding a match).
 42.3.2 If both captains refuse to carry out instructions under 42.2.2.3 
in respect of the same incident, the umpires shall instruct the 
players	to	leave	the	field.	The	match	is	not	concluded	as	in	
clause 12.9 and there shall be no result under clause 16.
 42.4 Additional points relating to Level 4 offences
 42.4.1 If a player, while acting as wicket-keeper, commits a Level 
4 offence, clause 24.1.2 shall not apply, meaning that only a 
nominated	player	may	keep	wicket,	even	if	another	fielder	
becomes injured or ill and is replaced by a substitute.
 42.4.2  A nominated player who has a substitute will also suffer the 
penalty for any Level 4 offence committed by the substitute. 
However, only the substitute will be reported under clause 42.2.2.5. 42 PLAYERS’ CONDUCT
 42.1 Serious misconduct
 42.1.1 The umpires shall act upon any serious misconduct. The relevant 
offences and the corresponding actions by the umpires are 
identified	in	clause	42.2.1.	These	offences	correspond	with	
Level 4 offences in the ICC Code of Conduct. Level 1 to Level 
3 offences continue to be dealt with separately under the ICC 
Code of Conduct.
 42.1.2 If either umpire considers that a player has committed one 
of these offences at any time during the match, the umpire 
concerned shall call and signal Dead ball. This call may be 
delayed	until	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	it	will	not	disadvantage	
the non-offending side.
 42.1.3  The umpire concerned shall report the matter to the other umpire 
and together they shall decide whether an offence has been 
committed. The umpires may also consult with the third umpire 
and the match referee, who may review any audio or video 
replays	to	confirm	whether	an	offence	has	been	committed.	If	so, 	
the umpires shall then apply the related sanctions.
 42.1.4 If the offence is committed by a batsman, the umpires shall 
summon	the	offending	player’s	captain	to	the	field.	Solely	for	
the purpose of this clause, the batsmen at the wicket may not 
deputise for their captain.
 42.2 Level 4 offences and action by umpires
 42.2.1 Any of the following actions by a player shall constitute a Level 
4 offence:
 -  threatening to assault an umpire
 -  making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with  
an umpire
 -  physically assaulting a player or any other person
 -  committing any other act of violence.
 42.2.2 If such an offence is committed, 42.2.2.1 to 42.2.2.5 shall  
be implemented.
 42.2.2.1 The umpire shall call Time.
 42.2.2.2 Together the umpires shall summon and inform the 
offending player’s captain that an offence at this 
Level has occurred.
 42.2.2.3 The umpires shall instruct the captain to remove  
the	offending	player	immediately	from	the	field	of	
play for the remainder of the match and shall apply 
the following:
	 42.2.2.3.1	 If	the	offending	player	is	a	fielder,	no	
substitute shall be allowed for him. He 
is	to	be	recorded	as	Retired	–	out	at	the	
commencement of any subsequent innings 
in which his team is the batting side.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.88 3.89APPENDIX A
DEFINITIONS
 1 THE MATCH
 1.1 The game is used in these Playing Conditions as a general term meaning 
the Game of Cricket. 
 1.2 A match is a single Test Match between two teams, played under these 
Playing Conditions.
 1.3 The toss is the toss for choice of innings.
 1.4 Before the toss is at any time before the toss on the day the match is 
expected to start.
 1.5 Before the match is at any time before the toss, not restricted to the 
day on which the toss is to take place.
 1.6 During the match is at any time after the toss until the conclusion of 
the match, whether play is in progress or not.
 1.7 Playing time is any time between the call of Play and the call of Time. 
See clauses 12.1 (Call of Play) and 12.2 (Call of Time). 
 1.8 Conduct of the match includes any action relevant to the match at any 
time on any day of the match.
 1.9 Ground Authority is the entity responsible for the selection and 
preparation of the pitch and other functions relating to the hosting and 
management of the match, including any agents acting on their behalf 
(including but not limited to the curator or other ground staff).
 1.10 Home Board is the ICC member responsible for the home team and the 
hosting of the match.
 1.11 Visiting Board is the ICC member responsible for the visiting team.
 1.12 The Spirit of Cricket refers to the values of respect and fair play that 
underpin the game of cricket, as set out in the Preamble to these 
Playing Conditions.
 1.13 The ICC Code of Conduct is the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and 
Player Support Personnel, as amended from time to time.
 1.14 The Competition Window means, in relation to the 2019-2021 edition 
of the ICC World Test Championship, the period from Thursday 1 August 
2019 until Wednesday 31 March 2021 (inclusive);
 1.15 The Round Stage is the twenty-seven (27) series comprising the 
2019-2021 edition of the ICC World Test Championship.
 1.16 A Penalty Over has the meaning set out in clause 16.11 and shall be 
calculated in accordance with the process set out in clause 12.9.APPENDICES TO ICC  
WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
(INCORPORATING THE 2017 CODE OF THE MCC LAWS OF CRICKET)
EFFECTIVE 1 OCTOBER 2017
A.	 Definitions
B. Equipment
 1. The bat
 2. The wickets
 3. Wicket-keeping gloves
C. The venue
 1. The pitch and the creases
 2. Advertising on grounds, perimeter boards and sight-screens
	 3.	 Markings	on	outfield
D. Decision Review System (DRS) and Third Umpire Protocol
E. CalculationsICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.90 3.91 4.2 In front of the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area 
of	the	field	of	play,	including	any	other	marking,	objects	and	persons	
therein, that is on that side of the popping crease that includes the 
creases at the opposite end of the pitch. In front of, in relation to any 
other marking, object or person, follows the same principle. See the 
diagram in paragraph 13.
 4.3 The striker’s end is the place where the striker stands to receive a 
delivery	from	the	bowler	only	insofar	as	it	identifies,	independently	of	
where the striker may subsequently move, one end of the pitch. 
 4.4 The bowler’s end is the end from which the bowler delivers the ball. It is 
the	other	end	of	the	pitch	from	the	striker’s	end	and	identifies	that	end	
of the pitch that is not the striker’s end as described in paragraph 4.3. 
 4.5 The wicket-keeper’s end is the same as the striker’s end as described in 
paragraph 4.3.
 4.6 In front of the line of the striker’s wicket	is	in	the	area	of	the	field	of	
play in front of the imaginary line joining the fronts of the stumps at the 
striker’s end; this line to be considered extended in both directions to 
the boundary. See paragraph 4.2.
 4.7 Behind the wicket	is	in	the	area	of	the	field	of	play	behind	the	
imaginary line joining the backs of the stumps at the appropriate end; 
this line to be considered extended in both directions to the boundary. 
See paragraph 4.1.
 4.8 Behind the wicket-keeper is behind the wicket at the striker’s end, as 
defined	above,	but	in	line	with	both	sets	of	stumps	and	further	from	the	
stumps than the wicket-keeper.
 4.9 Off side/on (leg) side	–	see	diagram	in	paragraph	13
 4.10 Inside edge is the edge on the same side as the nearer wicket. 
 5 UMPIRES AND DECISION-MAKING
 5.1 Umpire	–	where	the	description	the umpire is used on its own, it 
always	means	‘the	bowler’s	end	umpire’	though	this	full	description	is	
sometimes used for emphasis or clarity. Similarly the umpires always 
means both umpires and the third umpire. An umpire and umpires are 
generalised terms. Otherwise, a fuller description indicates which one 
of	the	umpires	is	specifically	intended.	Each	umpire	will	be	bowler’s	end	
umpire and striker’s end umpire in alternate overs. 
 5.2 Bowler’s end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the bowler’s end 
(see paragraph 4.4) for the current delivery.
 5.3 Striker’s end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the striker’s end 
(see paragraph 4.3), to one side of the pitch or the other, depending on 
his/her choice, for the current delivery. 
 5.4 On-field	umpires shall mean, collectively, the bowler’s end umpire and 
the striker’s end umpire.
 5.5 Third umpire is the umpire who may use television evidence and other 
available	technology	in	order	review	a	decision	of	the	on-field	umpires,	
either by way of an Umpire Review or a Player Review under the 
protocol set out in Appendix D. 2 IMPLEMENTS AND EQUIPMENT
 2.1 Implements used in the match are the bat, the ball, the stumps and bails.
 2.2 External protective equipment is any visible item of apparel worn for 
protection against external blows.
  For a batsman, items permitted are a protective helmet, external leg 
guards (batting pads), batting gloves and, if visible, forearm guards.
	 	 For	a	fielder,	only	a	protective	helmet	is	permitted,	except	in	the	case	  
of a wicket-keeper, for whom wicket-keeping pads and gloves are  
also permitted.
 2.3 A protective helmet is headwear made of hard material and designed 
to protect the head or the face or both, which shall (in line with the 
Clothing	and	Equipment	Regulations)	be	certified	to	BS7928:2013.	
For the purposes of interpreting these Playing Conditions, such a 
description will include faceguards.
 2.4 Equipment	–	a	batsman’s	equipment	is	his	bat	as	defined	above,	
together with any external protective equipment he is wearing.
  A	fielder’s	equipment is any external protective equipment that he  
is wearing.
 2.5 The bat –	the	following	are	to	be	considered	as	part	of	the	bat:
 - the whole of the bat itself.
 - the whole of a glove (or gloves) worn on the hand (or hands) holding 
the bat.
 - the hand (or hands) holding the bat, if the batsman is not wearing a 
glove on that hand or on those hands.
 2.6 Held in batsman’s hand. Contact between a batsman’s hand, or glove 
worn on his hand, and any part of the bat shall constitute the bat being 
held in that hand.
 3 THE PLAYING AREA
 3.1 The	field	of	play	is the area contained within the boundary.
 3.2 The square	is	a	specially	prepared	area	of	the	field	of	play	within	which	
the match pitch is situated.
 3.3 The	outfield	is	that	part	of	the	field	of	play	between	the	square	and	  
the boundary.
 4 POSITIONING
 4.1 Behind the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area of the 
field	of	play,	including	any	other	marking,	objects	and	persons	therein,	
that is on that side of the popping crease that does not include the 
creases at the opposite end of the pitch. Behind, in relation to any other 
marking, object or person, follows the same principle. See the diagram 
in paragraph 13. ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.92 3.93 6 BATSMEN
 6.1 Batting side is the side currently batting, whether or not play is in progress.
 6.2 Member of the batting side is one of the players nominated by the 
captain of the batting side, or any authorised replacement for such 
nominated player.
 6.3 A batsman’s ground	–	at	each	end	of	the	pitch,	the	whole	area	of	the	
field	of	play	behind	the	popping	crease	is	the	ground	at	that	end	for	  
a batsman.
 6.4 Original end is the end where a batsman was when the ball came into 
play for that delivery.
 6.5 Wicket he has left is the wicket at the end where a batsman was at the 
start of the run in progress.
 6.6 Guard position is the position and posture adopted by the striker to 
receive a ball delivered by the bowler.
 6.7 For the purposes of these Playing Conditions, waist height	is	defined	
as the point at which the top of the batsman’s trousers would 
conventionally be when he is standing upright at the popping crease.
 7 FIELDERS
 7.1 Fielding side	is	the	side	currently	fielding,	whether	or	not	play	is	in	progress.
 7.2 Member	of	the	fielding	side is one of the players nominated by the 
captain	of	the	fielding	side,	or	any	authorised	replacement	or	substitute	
for such nominated player. 
 7.3 Fielder is one of the 11 or fewer players who together represent the 
fielding	side	on	the	field	of	play.	This	definition	includes	not	only	both	
the bowler and the wicket-keeper but also nominated players who 
are	legitimately	on	the	field	of	play,	together	with	players	legitimately	
acting as substitutes for absent nominated players. It excludes any 
nominated	player	who	is	absent	from	the	field	of	play,	or	who	has	been	
absent	from	the	field	of	play	and	who	has	not	yet	obtained	the	umpire’s	
permission to return. 
	 	 A	player	going	briefly	outside	the	boundary	in	the	course	of	discharging	
his	duties	as	a	fielder	is	not	absent	from	the	field	of	play	nor,	for	the	
purposes	of	clause	24.2	(Fielder	absent	or	leaving	the	field	of	play),	is	he	
to	be	regarded	as	having	left	the	field	of	play.
 8 SUBSTITUTES AND CONCUSSION REPLACEMENTS
 8.1 A Substitute	is	a	player	who	takes	the	place	of	a	fielder	on	the	field	  
of play, but does not replace the player for whom he substitutes on  
that side’s list of nominated players. A substitute’s activities are limited 
to	fielding.
 8.2 A Concussion Replacement is a player who takes the place of a player 
who has been replaced in accordance with the process set out in clause 
1.2.7, and who for the remainder of the match replaces that player on 
that side’s list of nominated players, being able to take a full part in the 
match (subject to such restrictions as may be imposed by the ICC Match 
Referee in accordance with clause 1.2.8 5.6 Umpires together agree applies to decisions which the umpires are to 
make jointly, independently of the players.
 5.7 Decision Review System or DRS is the process covered by the Decision 
Review System and Third Umpire Protocol set out in Appendix D, under 
which the third umpire may be consulted in relation to a decision of the 
on-field	umpires,	either	by	way	of	an	Umpire	Review	or	a	Player	Review.
 5.8 Player Review is the process set out in Appendix D by which a player 
may	request	a	review	of	any	decision	taken	by	the	on-field	umpires	
concerning whether or not a batsman is dismissed (with the exception 
of	‘Timed	out’).
 5.9 Umpire Review is the process set out in Appendix D by which an 
on-field	umpire	has	the	discretion	to	refer	a	decision	to	the	third	umpire	
or, under certain circumstances, to consult with the third umpire before 
making a decision.
 5.10 Soft Signal is the visual communication by the bowler’s end umpire to 
the third umpire (accompanied by additional information via two-way 
radio	where	necessary)	of	his/her	initial	on-field	decision	prior	to	
initiating an Umpire Review.
 5.11 Umpire’s Call	is	the	concept	within	the	DRS	under	which	the	on-field	
decision of the bowler’s end umpire shall stand, which shall apply 
under	the	specific	circumstances	set	out	in	paragraphs	3.4.5	and	3.4.6	of	
Appendix D, where the ball-tracking technology indicates a marginal 
decision in respect of either the Impact Zone or the Wicket Zone.
 5.12 The Pitching Zone as used in the DRS is a two dimensional area on the 
pitch between both sets of stumps with its boundaries consisting of the 
base of both sets of stumps and a line between the outside of the outer 
stumps at each end.
 5.13 The Impact Zone as used in the DRS is a three dimensional space 
extending	 between	 both	sets	of	stumps	to	an	indefinite	 height	vertically	
and with its boundaries consisting of the base of the stumps and the 
outside of the outer stumps at each end.
 5.14 The Wicket Zone as used in the DRS is a two dimensional area with its 
boundaries consisting of the outside of the outer stumps, the base of 
the stumps, and the lower edge of the bails.
 5.15 A Fair Catch	is	a	catch	that	has	been	taken	cleanly	by	the	fielder	in	
accordance with clause 33.
 5.16 A Bump Ball is where the ball has made contact with the ground shortly 
after making contact with the striker’s bat.
 5.17 The Elite Panel	is	the	group	of	umpires	contracted	to	the	ICC	to	officiate	
in international cricket. 
 5.18 The International Panel is the group of umpires nominated by the ICC’s 
full members in accordance with clause Error! Reference source not 
found. of the Playing Conditions.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.94 3.95 11 RUNS
 11.1 A run to be disallowed is one that in these Playing Conditions should 
not have been taken. It is not only to be cancelled but the batsmen are 
to be returned to their original ends. 
 11.2 A run not to be scored is one that is not illegal, but is not recognised 
as a properly executed run. It is not a run that has been made, so the 
question of cancellation does not arise. The loss of the run so attempted 
is not a disallowance and the batsmen will not be returned to their 
original ends on that account. 
 12 THE PERSON
 12.1 Person;	A	player’s	person	is	his	physical	person	(flesh	and	blood)	
together with any clothing or legitimate external protective equipment 
that he is wearing except, in the case of a batsman, his bat.
  A hand, whether gloved or not, that is not holding the bat is part of the 
batsman’s person.
  No item of clothing or equipment is part of the player’s person unless it 
is attached to him.
  For a batsman, a glove being held but not worn is part of his person.
	 	 For	a	fielder,	an	item	of	clothing	or	equipment	he	is	holding	in	his	hand	
or hands is not part of his person.
 12.2 Clothing	–	anything	that	a	player	is	wearing,	including	such	items	
as spectacles or jewellery, that is not classed as external protective 
equipment is classed as clothing, even though he may be wearing 
some items of apparel, which are not visible, for protection. A bat being 
carried	by	a	batsman	does	not	come	within	this	definition	of	clothing.
 12.3 Hand for batsman or wicket-keeper shall include both the hand itself 
and the whole of a glove worn on the hand. 8.3 A Concussion Replacement Request is	the	notification	made	to	the	ICC	
Match Referee in accordance with the process set out in clause 1.2.7.3
 8.4 The Team Medical Representative is the individual designated as 
having responsibility for the assessment of any head or neck injury 
sustained by a player as set out in clause 1.2.7.2
 9 BOWLERS
 9.1 Over the wicket / round the wicket	–	If,	as	the	bowler	runs	up	between	
the wicket and the return crease, the wicket is on the same side as his 
bowling arm, he is bowling over the wicket. If the return crease is on the 
same side as his bowling arm, he is bowling round the wicket.
 9.2 Delivery swing is the motion of the bowler’s arm during which he 
normally releases the ball for a delivery.
 9.3 Delivery stride is the stride during which the delivery swing is made, 
whether the ball is released or not. It starts when the bowler’s back foot 
lands for that stride and ends when the front foot lands in the same 
stride. The stride after the delivery stride is completed when the next 
foot lands, i.e. when the back foot of the delivery stride lands again.
 9.4 The Illegal Bowling Regulations are the ICC’s regulations governing 
Illegal Bowling Actions.
 9.5 An Illegal Bowling Action is a bowling action where a bowler’s Elbow 
Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured from the point at which the 
bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the point at which the ball 
is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for the 
purposes of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).
 9.6 Elbow Extension means the motion that occurs when a bowler’s arm 
moves	from	a	flexed	(bent)	position	at	the	elbow,	to	a	more	extended	
(straight) position (full Elbow Extension occurs when the arm is straight).
 9.7 Elbow Hyperextension is the motion that occurs when a bowler’s 
elbow extends beyond the straight position.
 9.8 The ICC Bowling Action Report Form is the form provided for by Article 
3 of the Illegal Bowling Regulations, by which an umpire and/or the 
ICC Match Referee may submit a report relating to a suspected Illegal 
Bowling Action.
 10 THE BALL
 10.1 The ball is struck/strikes the ball unless	specifically	defined	otherwise,	
mean	‘the	ball	is	struck	by	the	bat’/‘strikes	the	ball	with	the	bat’.
 10.2 Rebounds directly/strikes directly	and	similar	phrases	mean	‘without	
contact	with	any	fielder’	but	do	not	exclude	contact	with	the	ground.
 10.3 Full-pitch describes a ball delivered by the bowler that reaches or 
passes the striker without having touched the ground. Sometimes 
described as non-pitching.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.96 3.97APPENDIX B
EQUIPMENT
 1 THE BAT
 1.1 General guidance
 1.1.1 Measurements - All provisions in paragraphs 1.2 to 1.6 below 
are subject to the measurements and restrictions stated in the 
Playing Conditions and this Appendix.
 1.1.2 Adhesives	–	Throughout,	adhesives	are	permitted	only	where	
essential and only in minimal quantity.
	 1.2	 Specifications	for	the	Handle
 1.2.1 One end of the handle is inserted into a recess in the blade as a 
means of joining the handle and the blade.
  This lower portion is used purely for joining the blade and 
the handle together. It is not part of the blade but, solely in 
interpreting paragraphs 1.3 and 1.4 below, references to the blade 
shall be considered to extend also to this lower portion of the 
handle where relevant.
 1.2.2 The handle may be glued where necessary and bound with twine 
along the upper portion. 
  Providing clause 5.5 is not contravened, the upper portion may 
be covered with materials solely to provide a surface suitable for 
gripping. Such covering is an addition and is not part of the bat, 
except in relation to clause 5.6. The bottom of this grip should not 
extend	below	the	point	defined	in	paragraph	1.2.4	below.
  Twine binding and the covering grip may extend beyond the 
junction of the upper and lower portions of the handle, to cover 
part	of	the	shoulders	of	the	bat	as	defined	in	paragraph	1.3.1.
  No material may be placed on or inserted into the lower portion 
of the handle other than as permitted above together with the 
minimal	adhesives	or	adhesive	tape	used	solely	for	fixing	these	
items,	or	for	fixing	the	handle	to	the	blade.
 1.2.3 Materials in handle	–	As	a	proportion	of	the	total	volume	of	the	
handle, materials other than cane, wood or twine are restricted 
to one-tenth. Such materials must not project more than 3.25 
in/8.26 cm into the lower portion of the handle
 1.2.4 Binding and covering of handle	–	The	permitted	continuation	
beyond the junction of the upper and lower portions of the 
handle is restricted to a maximum, measured along the length of 
the handle, of 
  2.5 in/6.35 cm in for the twine binding
  2.75 in/6.99 cm for the covering grip. 13 OFF SIDE / ON SIDE; IN FRONT OF /  
BEHIND THE POPPING CREASE.
Behind the 
popping crease
Off side
In front of the 
popping crease
Off sideBehind the 
popping crease
On side (leg side)
In front of the 
popping crease
On side (leg side)WICKET-KEEPER
UMPIREBOWLERRight-handed strikerICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.98 3.99 1.4.3 Permitted coverings, repair material and toe guards, not 
exceeding	their	specified	thicknesses,	may	be	additional	to	the	
dimensions above, but the bat must still pass through the gauge 
as described in paragraph 1.6.
	 1.5	 Commercial	identifications	
	 	 Such	identifications	shall	comply	with	the	restrictions	set	out	in	the	
Clothing and Equipment Regulations in relation to the size and position 
of marks and logos.
 1.6 Bat Gauge
	 	 All	bats	must	meet	the	specifications	defined	in	clause	5.7.	They	must	
also, with or without protective coverings permitted in clause 5.4, be 
able to pass through a bat gauge, the dimensions and shape of which 
are shown in the following diagram: 
 
  DIMENSIONS OF APERTURE
  Total Depth: 2.68 in/6.8 cm
  Width: 4.33 in/11.0 cm
  Edge: 1.61 in/4.1 cm
  Curve: 0.20 in/0.5 cm
  Note: The curve of the lower edge of the aperture is an arc of a circle  
of radius 12.0 in/30.5 cm, whose centre is on the vertical centre line of 
the aperture. 1.3	 Specifications	for	the	Blade
 1.3.1 The blade has a face, a back, a toe, sides and shoulders
 1.3.1.1  The face of the blade is its main striking surface and shall be 
flat	or	have	a	slight	convex	curve	resulting	from	traditional 	
pressing techniques. The back is the opposite surface.
 1.3.1.2 The shoulders, sides and toe are the remaining surfaces, 
separating the face and the back.
 1.3.1.3 The shoulders, one on each side of the handle, are along 
that	portion	of	the	blade	between	the	first	entry	point	of	
the	handle	and	the	point	at	which	the	blade	first	reaches	
its full width.
 1.3.1.4 The toe is the surface opposite to the shoulders taken as 
a pair.
 1.3.1.5 The sides, one each side of the blade, are along the rest 
of the blade, between the toe and the shoulders.
 1.3.2 No material may be placed on or inserted into the blade other 
than as permitted in paragraph 1.2.4, paragraph 1.3.3, and clause 
5.4 together with the minimal adhesives or adhesive tape used 
solely	for	fixing	these	items,	or	for	fixing	the	handle	to	the	blade.
 1.3.3 Covering the blade. Bats shall have no covering on the blade 
except as permitted in clause 5.4. 
  Any materials referred to above, in clause 5.4 and paragraph 1.4 
below, are to be considered as part of the bat, which must still 
pass	through	the	gauge	as	defined	in	paragraph	1.6.
 1.4 Protection and repair 
 1.4.1 The surface of the blade may be treated with non-solid materials 
to improve resistance to moisture penetration and/or mask 
natural blemishes in the appearance of the wood. Save for the 
purpose of giving a homogeneous appearance by masking 
natural blemishes, such treatment shall not materially alter the 
colour of the blade. 
 1.4.2 Materials can be used for protection and repair as stated in clause 
5.4 and are additional to the blade. Note however clause 5.6.
  Any such material shall not extend over any part of the back of 
the blade except in the case of clause 5.4.1 and then only when it is 
applied as a continuous wrapping covering the damaged area.
  The repair material shall not extend along the length of the blade 
more than 0.79 in/2.0 cm in each direction beyond the limits of 
the damaged area. Where used as a continuous binding, any 
overlapping shall not breach the maximum of 0.04 in/0.1 cm in 
total thickness.
  The use of non-solid material which when dry forms a hard layer 
more than 0.004 in/0.01 cm in thickness is not permitted.Depth 6.8cmEdge
4.1cmWidth 11.0cm
0.5cmICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.100 3.101 3 WICKET-KEEPING GLOVES
 3.1 The images below illustrate the requirements of clause 27.2 in relation to:
	 •	 no	webbing	between	the	fingers;
	 •	 a	single	piece	of	non-stretch	material	between	finger	and	thumb	as	a	
means of support; and
 • when a hand wearing the glove has the thumb fully extended, the 
top edge being taut and not protruding beyond the straight line 
joining	the	top	of	the	index	finger	to	the	top	of	the	thumb.
 3.2 Note also the requirement for wicket-keeping gloves to comply with 
the Clothing and Equipment Regulations in relation to the size and 
position of marks and logos. 2 THE WICKETS
 2.1 Bails
  Overall 4.31 in / 10.95 cm
  a = 1.38 in / 3.50 cm
  b = 2.13 in / 5.40 cm
  c = 0.81 in / 2.06 cm
 2.2 Stumps
  Height (d) = 28 in / 71.1 cm
  Diameter (e) - maximum = 1.5 in / 3.81 cm; minimum = 1.38 in / 3.50 cm
 2.3 Overall
  Width (f) of wicket 9 in / 22.86 cm
e e edb ba a c c
ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.102 3.103 2 ADVERTISING ON GROUNDS, PERIMETER BOARDS  
AND SIGHT-SCREENS
 2.1 Advertising on grounds
	 2.1.1	 The	logos	on	outfields	are	to	be	positioned	as	follows:	
	 (a)	 Behind	the	stumps	–	a	minimum	of	25.15	yards	(23	meters)	
from the stumps. 
	 (b)	 Midwicket/cover	area	–	no	advertising	to	be	positioned	
within 30 yards (27.50 meters) of the centre of the pitch 
being used for the match. 
 2.1.2 Note: Advertising closer to the stumps as set out above which 
is required to meet 3D requirements for broadcasters may be 
permitted, subject to prior ICC approval having been obtained. 
 2.2 Perimeter boards
 2.2.1 Advertising on perimeter boards placed in front of the sight-
screens is permitted save that the predominant colour of such 
advertising shall be of a contrasting colour to that of the ball. 
 2.2.2  Advertising on perimeter boards behind the stumps at both ends 
shall	not	contain	moving,	flashing	or	flickering	images	and	operators 	
should ensure that the images are only changed or moved at a time 
that will not be distracting to the players or the umpires. 
 2.2.3 The brightness of any electronic images shall be set at a level so 
that it is not a distraction to the players or umpires.
 2.3 Sight-screens 
 2.3.1 Sight-screens shall be provided at both ends of all grounds. 
For day-night Test matches, they will be white or black as 
determined by the Home Board.
 2.3.2  Advertising shall be permitted on the sight-screen behind the striker, 
providing it is removed for the subsequent over from that end.
	 2.3.3	 Such	advertising	shall	not	contain	flashing	or	flickering	images	and 	
particular care should be taken by the operators that the advertising 
is not changed at a time which is distracting to the umpire.
 3 MARKINGS ON OUTFIELD
 With the permission of the Ground Authority, a bowler may use paint to make 
a	small	marking	on	the	outfield	for	the	purposes	of	identifying	their	run-up.	
Paint used for this purpose shall be any colour other than white.APPENDIX C
THE VENUE
 1 THE PITCH AND THE CREASES
 
5ft/1.52m
Minimum
15 yards/13.71mProtected Area
Indicators
Popping
CreaseReturn
Crease
Return
CreaseBowling
Crease
Protected
Area
Indicators
Minimum
8ft/2.44m9in/22.86cm4ft/1.22cm
8ft 8in 
/2.64m1ft
30.48cm
22yds/20.12mICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.104 3.105 1.2.2 The table below summarises the minimum requirements for DRS 
to be used, and the regulations around the appointment of the 
third umpire:
DRS
Minimum 
RequirementCameras
–	Specification	detailed	in	paragraph	1.2.1.
Technology
–	Approved	ball-tracking	technology.
–	Approved	sound-based	edge	detection	technology.
Third Umpire 
JurisdictionUmpire Reviews and Player Reviews
Replays that 
can be usedAny replay, stump microphone audio or technology 
detailed in paragraph 3.8.1 below.
ICC Technical 
OfficerThe ICC shall appoint an independent technology expert 
(ICC	Technical	Officer)	to	be	present	at	every	series	to	
assist the third umpire and to protect the integrity of the 
DRS process.
 1.2.3 The Home Board shall ensure that a separate room is provided 
for the third umpire and that he/she has access to the television 
equipment and technology so as to be in the best position to 
facilitate the referral and/or consultation processes referred to in 
paragraphs 2 (Umpire Review) and 3 (Player Review) below.
 2 UMPIRE REVIEW
 In the circumstances detailed in paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4 below, the 
on-field	umpire	shall	have	the	discretion	to	refer	the	decision	to	the	third	
umpire or, in the case of paragraphs 2.2, and 2.4, to consult with the third 
umpire before making the decision.
 Save for requesting the umpire to review his/her decision under paragraph 3 
(Player	Review)	below,	players	may	not	appeal	to	the	on-field	umpires	to	use	
the Umpire Review. Breach of this provision may constitute dissent and the 
player may be subject to disciplinary action under the ICC Code of Conduct 
for Players and Player Support Personnel.
 2.1 Run Out, Stumped, Bowled and Hit Wicket Decisions
	 2.1.1	 The	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	be	entitled	to	refer	an	appeal	
for run-out, stumped, bowled or hit wicket to the third umpire.
	 2.1.2	 An	on-field	umpire	wishing	to	refer	a	decision	to	the	third	umpire	
shall signal to the third umpire by making the shape of a TV 
screen with his/her hands.
 2.1.3 In the case of a referral of a bowled, hit wicket or stumped 
decision,	the	third	umpire	shall	first	check	the	fairness	of	the	
delivery (all modes of No ball except for the bowler using an 
Illegal Bowling Action, subject to the proviso that the third 
umpire may review whether the bowler has used a prohibited 
Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	Bowling	
Regulations). If the delivery was not a fair delivery the third 
umpire shall indicate that the batsman is Not out and advise the 
on-field	umpire	to	signal	No	ball.	See	also	paragraph	2.5	below.APPENDIX D
DECISION REVIEW SYSTEM (DRS) 
 1 GENERAL
 1.1 It is mandatory for the Host Board to provide DRS technology for all 
World Test Championship matches.
 1.2 Minimum requirements for use of DRS.
	 1.2.1	 The	camera	specification	set	out	below	shall	be	mandatory	as	a	
minimum requirement.
Run Out Camera 1
Run Out Camera 2Run Out Camera 3
Run Out Camera 4Ball Follow 1
Ball Follow 2ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.106 3.107 2.3 Boundary Decisions
 2.3.1 The bowler’s end umpire shall be entitled to refer to the third 
umpire for a decision on:
 2.3.1.1 whether a four or six has been scored;
	 2.3.1.2	 whether	a	fielder	had	any	part	of	his	person	in	contact	
with the ball when he touched the boundary; or
	 2.3.1.3	 whether	the	fielder	had	any	part	of	his	person	in	contact	
with the ball when he had any part of his person 
grounded beyond the boundary.
 2.3.2 A decision shall be made immediately and cannot be changed 
thereafter.
 2.3.3 If the television evidence is inconclusive as to whether or not a 
boundary has been scored, the default presumption shall be in 
favour of no boundary being awarded.
 2.3.4 Where the bowler’s end umpire wishes to use the assistance of 
the third umpire in this circumstance, he/she shall communicate 
with the third umpire by use of a two-way radio and the third 
umpire shall convey his/her decision to the bowler’s end umpire 
by the same method.
	 2.3.5	 The	third	umpire	may	initiate	contact	with	the	on-field	umpire	
by two-way radio if TV coverage shows a boundary line 
infringement or incident that appears not to have been acted 
upon	by	the	on-field	umpires.
 2.4 Batsmen Running to the Same End
	 2.4.1	 Where	both	batsmen	have	run	to	the	same	end	and	the	on-field	
umpires	are	uncertain	over	which	batsman	made	his	ground	first,	
the	on-field	umpires	may	consult	with	the	third	umpire.
 2.4.2 The procedure set out in paragraph 2.3.4 shall apply.
 2.5 No Balls
 2.5.1 If the bowler’s end umpire is uncertain as to the fairness of the 
delivery following a dismissal, either affecting the validity of the 
dismissal or which batsman is dismissed, he/she shall be entitled 
to	request	the	batsman	to	delay	leaving	the	field	and	to	check	
the fairness of the delivery with the third umpire. Communication 
with the third umpire shall be by two-way radio.
 2.5.2 The third umpire shall check all modes of No ball except for the 
bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action (subject to the proviso 
that the third umpire may review whether the bowler has used 
a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	
Bowling Regulations). The third umpire shall apply clause 21.5 
when deciding whether a No ball should have been called (and 
must	therefore	be	satisfied	that	none	of	the	three	conditions	in	
clause 21.5 have been met before calling a No ball).	 2.1.4	 Additionally,	if	the	third	umpire	finds	the	batsman	is	Out	by	
another mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), or Not out by any 
mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), he/she shall notify the 
on-field	umpire	so	that	the	correct	decision	is	made.
 2.1.5 If the third umpire decides that the batsman is Out, a red light 
shall be displayed; if the third umpire decides that the batsman is 
Not out, a green light shall be displayed. Should the third umpire 
be temporarily unable to respond, a white light (where available) 
shall remain illuminated throughout the period of interruption 
to	signify	to	the	on-field	umpires	that	Umpire	Reviews	are	
temporarily unavailable, in which case the decision shall be taken 
by	the	on-field	umpire.	As	an	alternative	to	the	red/green	light	
system, the replay screen (where available) may be used for the 
purpose of conveying the third umpire’s decision, in line with the 
ICC Big Screen Policy.
 2.2 Caught Decisions, Obstructing the Field
 2.2.1 Where the bowler’s end umpire is unable to decide upon a Fair 
Catch	or	a	Bump	Ball,	or	if,	on	appeal	from	the	fielding	side,	the	
batsman	obstructed	the	field,	he/she	shall	first	consult	with	the	
striker’s end umpire.
	 2.2.2	 Should	both	on-field	umpires	require	assistance	from	the	third	
umpire	to	make	a	decision,	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	shall	firstly	
take	a	decision	on-field	after	consulting	with	the	striker’s	end	
umpire, before consulting by two-way radio with the third 
umpire. Such consultation shall be initiated by the bowler’s end 
umpire to the third umpire by making the shape of a TV screen 
with his/her hands, followed by a Soft Signal of Out or Not out 
made with the hands close to the chest at chest height. If the 
third umpire advises that the replay evidence is inconclusive, the 
on-field	decision	communicated	at	the	start	of	the	consultation	
process shall stand.
 2.2.3 The third umpire shall determine whether the batsman has been 
caught, whether the delivery was a Bump Ball, or if the batsman 
obstructed	the	field.	However,	in	reviewing	the	television	
replay(s),	the	third	umpire	shall	first	check	the	fairness	of	the	
delivery for all decisions involving a catch (all modes of No ball 
except for the bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action, subject to 
the proviso that the third umpire may review whether the bowler 
has	used	a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	
Illegal Bowling Regulations) and whether the batsman has hit the 
ball. If the delivery was not a fair delivery or if it is clear to the 
third umpire that the batsman did not hit the ball he/she shall 
indicate to the bowler’s end umpire that the batsman is Not out 
caught, and in the case of an unfair delivery, advise the bowler’s 
end umpire to signal No ball. See also paragraph 2.5 below. 
Additionally, if it is clear to the third umpire that the batsman is 
Out by another mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), or Not out by 
any mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), he/she shall notify the 
bowler’s end umpire so that the correct decision can be made.
 2.2.4 The third umpire shall communicate his/her decision as set out in 
paragraph 2.1.5.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.108 3.109 3.1.3 Only the batsman involved in a dismissal may request a Player 
Review of an Out decision and only the captain (or acting 
captain)	of	the	fielding	team	may	request	a	Player	Review	of	a	
Not out decision.
 3.1.4 A decision concerning whether or not a batsman is dismissed that 
could have been the subject of a Umpire Review under paragraph 
2 is eligible for a Player Review as soon as it is clear that the 
on-field	umpire	has	chosen	not	to	initiate	the	Umpire	Review.
 3.2 The manner of requesting the Player Review
	 3.2.1	 The	request	shall	be	made	by	the	player	making	a	‘T’	sign	with	
both forearms at head height.
 3.2.2  The total time elapsed between the ball becoming dead and the 
review request being made shall be no more than 15 seconds. The 
only exception permitted shall be when an Umpire Review for Fair 
Catch or Bump Ball (as permitted in paragraph 2.2 above) is required 
to answer an appeal for a caught decision, in which case either 
team is able to request a Player Review of that caught decision 
within 15 seconds of the decision being communicated. The bowler’s 
end umpire shall provide the relevant player with a prompt after 
10 seconds if the request has not been made at that time and the 
player	shall	request	the	review	immediately	thereafter.	If	the	on-field 	
umpires believe that a request has not been made within the 15 
second time limit, they shall decline the request for a Player Review.
	 3.2.3	 The	captain	may	consult	with	the	bowler	and	other	fielders,	and	
the two batsmen may consult with each other prior to deciding 
whether to request a Player Review. Under no circumstances 
is any player permitted to query an umpire about any aspect 
of a decision before deciding on whether or not to request a 
Player	Review.	If	the	on-field	umpires	believe	that	the	captain	or	
either batsman has received direct or indirect input emanating 
other	than	from	the	players	on	the	field,	then	they	may	at	their	
discretion decline the request for a Player Review. In particular, 
signals from the dressing room must not be given.
 3.2.4 No replays, either at normal speed or slow motion, shall be 
shown on a big screen to spectators until the 15 second time limit 
allowed for requesting a Player Review has elapsed. The only 
exception to this provision is where a Player Review of a caught 
decision is requested after the Umpire Review of a Fair Catch or 
Bump Ball has concluded, as detailed in paragraph 3.2.2 above 
(due to the fact that replays may have been shown on the big 
screen during that Umpire Review process).
	 3.2.5	 Where	either	on-field	umpire	initiates	an	Umpire	Review,	this	
does not preclude a player seeking a Player Review of a separate 
incident from the same delivery. The request for a Player Review 
may be made after the Umpire Review, provided the request is 
still within the 15 second time limit described in paragraph 3.2.2 
above. (See paragraphs 3.9.2 and 3.9.3 below for the process for 
addressing both an Umpire and Player Review).
 3.2.6 A request for a Player Review cannot be withdrawn once it has 
been made. 2.5.3 If the delivery was not a fair delivery, the bowler’s end umpire 
shall indicate that the batsman is Not out and signal No ball 
(except	in	the	case	of	a	dismissal	for	obstructing	the	field,	which	
may still be effected despite a No ball being called, in which case 
the bowler’s end umpire shall indicate that the relevant batsman 
is Out and additionally call a No ball).
 2.5.4 If a No ball is called following the check by the third umpire, the 
batting	side	shall	benefit	from	the	reversal	of	the	dismissal	and	
the	one	run	for	the	No	ball,	but	shall	not	benefit	from	any	runs	
that may subsequently have accrued from the delivery had the 
on-field	umpire	originally	called	a	No	ball.	Where	the	batsmen	
crossed while the ball was in the air before being caught, the 
batsmen shall remain at the same ends as if the striker had been 
dismissed, but no runs shall be credited to the striker even if one 
(or more) runs were completed prior to the catch being taken.
 2.6 Cameras On or Over the Field of Play
	 2.6.1	 The	on-field	umpires	shall	be	entitled	to	refer	to	the	third	umpire	
for a decision as to whether the ball has at any time during the 
normal course of play come into contact with any part of the 
camera, its apparatus or its cables above the playing area, as 
contemplated in clause 20.1.3.
	 2.6.2	 Where	an	on-field	umpire	wishes	to	use	the	assistance	of	the	
third umpire in this circumstance, he/she shall communicate with 
the third umpire by use of a two-way radio and the third umpire 
shall convey his/her decision to the bowler’s end umpire by the 
same method.
 2.6.3 A decision shall be made immediately and cannot be changed 
thereafter. If the television evidence is inconclusive as to whether 
or not the ball has come into contact with any part of the camera, 
its apparatus or its cables above the playing area, the default 
presumption shall be in favour of no contact having been made.
	 2.6.4	 The	third	umpire	may	initiate	contact	with	the	on-field	umpire	
by two-way radio if TV coverage shows the ball to have been 
in contact with any part of the camera or its cables above the 
playing area as envisaged under this paragraph.
 3 PLAYER REVIEW
 The following paragraphs shall operate in addition to and in conjunction with 
paragraph 2 (Umpire Review).
 3.1 Circumstances in which a Player Review may be requested
 3.1.1 A player may request a review of any decision taken by the 
on-field	umpires	concerning	whether	or	not	a	batsman	is	
dismissed,	with	the	exception	of	‘Timed	Out’	(Player	Review).
 3.1.2 No other decisions made by the umpires are eligible for a  
Player Review with the exception of Fair Catch/Bump Ball  
(even after the third umpire has been consulted and the  
decision communicated).ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.110 3.111	 3.3.8	 The	on-field	umpire	shall	then	make	his/her	decision	based	on	
the information provided by the third umpire, any other factual 
information offered by the third umpire and his/her recollection 
and opinion of the original incident.
	 3.3.9	 The	on-field	umpire	shall	reverse	his/her	decision	if	the	nature	of	the 	
supplementary information received from the third umpire leads 
him/her to conclude that his/her original decision was incorrect.
 3.4 Review of LBW Decisions
 3.4.1 In assessing whether a batsman is Out LBW in accordance with 
clause	36,	the	third	umpire	shall	first	judge	whether	the	delivery	
is fair (as set out in clause 36.1.1), and second, whether or not the 
ball has touched the bat before being intercepted by any part of 
the striker’s person (as set out in clause 36.1.3).
 3.4.2 If the batsman is still eligible to be Out, the ball-tracking 
technology shall then present three pieces of information to the 
third umpire relating to the path of the ball:
 3.4.2.1 The point of pitching (where applicable) (PITCHING)
	 3.4.2.2	 The	position	of	the	ball	at	the	point	of	first	interception	
(IMPACT)
 3.4.2.3 Whether the ball would have hit the wicket (WICKET)
 3.4.3  This Decision Review System (DRS) and Third Umpire Protocol 
includes a category of Umpire’s Call, which shall be the conclusion 
reported where the technology indicates a marginal decision in 
respect	of	either	the	point	of	first	interception	or	whether	the	ball 	
would have hit the stumps.
 3.4.4 PITCHING
 3.4.4.1 The interpretation of “pitches in line between wicket and 
wicket” in clause 36.1.2 shall refer to the position of the 
centre of the ball at the point of pitching, in relation to 
the Pitching Zone.
	 3.4.4.2	 The	Pitching	Zone	is	defined	as	a	two	dimensional	area	
on the pitch between both sets of stumps with its 
boundaries consisting of the base of both sets of stumps 
and a line between the outside of the outer stumps at 
each end.
 3.4.4.3 Where applicable, the ball-tracking technology shall 
report that the ball pitched in one of the following three 
areas in relation to the Pitching Zone:
In Line The centre of the ball was inside the Pitching Zone
Outside Off The centre of the ball was outside, and to the 
off side of, the Pitching Zone
Outside Leg The centre of the ball was outside, and to the 
leg side of, the Pitching Zone 3.3 The process of consultation
 3.3.1 On receipt of an eligible and timely request for a Player Review, 
the	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	make	the	sign	of	a	shape	of	a	
TV screen with his/her hands in the normal way.
	 3.3.2	 The	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	initiate	communication	with	
the	third	umpire	by	confirming;
 3.3.2.1 That a Player Review has been requested,
	 3.3.2.2	 The	mode	of	dismissal	for	which	the	relevant	on-field	
umpire adjudicated the appeal,
 3.3.2.3 The decision that has been made (Out or Not out), and;
 3.3.2.4  For LBW appeals, where relevant, if the bowler’s end 
umpire believed that the striker made no genuine attempt 
to play the ball with the bat (the default presumption of 
the third umpire in the absence of any information on 
this point from the bowler’s end umpire shall be that a 
genuine attempt to play the ball with the bat was made).
 3.3.3 A two-way consultation process shall begin to investigate 
whether there is anything that the third umpire can see or hear 
which	would	indicate	that	the	on-field	umpire	should	change	his/
her original decision.
 3.3.4 The third umpire shall not withhold any factual information 
which may help in the decision making process. In particular, 
in reviewing a dismissal, if the third umpire believes that the 
batsman may instead be Out by any other mode of dismissal, he/
she	shall	advise	the	on-field	umpire	accordingly.	The	process	of	
consultation described in this paragraph in respect of such other 
mode of dismissal shall then be conducted as if the batsman has 
been given Not out.
 3.3.5 The third umpire shall initially check all modes of No ball except 
for the bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action (subject to the 
proviso that the third umpire may review whether the bowler has 
used	a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	
Bowling	Regulations),	where	appropriate	advising	the	on-field	
umpire accordingly.
 3.3.6 If despite the available technology, the third umpire is unable 
to	decide	with	a	high	degree	of	confidence	whether	the	original	
on-field	decision	should	be	changed,	then	he/she	shall	report	
that	the	replays	are	‘inconclusive’,	and	that	the	on-field	decision	
shall stand. The third umpire shall not give answers conveying 
likelihoods or probabilities.
 3.3.7 In circumstances where the television technology (all or parts 
thereof) is not available to the third umpire or fails for whatever 
reason,	the	third	umpire	shall	advise	the	on-field	umpire	of	this	
fact but still provide any relevant factual information that may 
be ascertained from the available television replays and other 
technology.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.112 3.113 3.4.5.6 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made a genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	Outside	for	
the decision to be reversed to Not out, otherwise the 
batsman shall remain eligible to be given Out.
 3.4.5.7 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made no genuine attempt 
to play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	Outside	(leg)	for	
the decision to be reversed to Not out, otherwise the 
batsman shall remain eligible to be given Out.
 3.4.6 WICKET
 3.4.6.1 The interpretation of whether “the ball would have hit 
the wicket” in clause 36.1.5 shall refer to position of the 
ball as it either hits or passes the wicket, in relation to 
the Wicket Zone.
	 3.4.6.2	 The	Wicket	Zone	is	defined	as	a	two	dimensional	area	
whose boundaries are the outside of the outer stumps, 
the base of the stumps and the bottom of the bails.
 3.4.6.3 The ball-tracking technology shall report whether the 
ball would have hit the wicket with reference to the 
following three categories:
Hitting The ball was hitting the wicket, and the centre of 
the ball was inside the Wicket Zone
Umpire’s 
CallThe ball was hitting the wicket, but the centre 
of the ball was not inside the Wicket Zone
Missing The ball was missing the wicket
 3.4.6.4 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, the ball-
tracking technology must report that the ball was Hitting 
for the batsman to be eligible to be given Out, otherwise 
the batsman shall remain Not out.
  However, where the evidence shows that the ball was 
Hitting,	the	point	of	first	interception	was	In	Line,	and	
the ball pitched In Line or Outside Off, but that:
	 •	 The	point	of	first	interception	was	300cm	or	more	
from the stumps; or
	 •	 The	point	of	first	interception	was	more	than	250cm	
but less than 300cm from the stumps and the distance 
between	the	point	of	pitching	and	the	point	of	first	
interception was less than 40cm,
	 	 the	on-field	decision	shall	stand	(that	is,	Not	out).
 3.4.6.5  Where an Out decision is being reviewed, the ball-tracking 
technology must report that the ball was Missing for the 
on-field	decision	to	be	reversed	to	Not	out,	otherwise	the 	
batsman shall remain eligible to be given Out. 3.4.4.4 Subject to the satisfaction of the other elements of 
clause 36, the batsman can be Out if the ball-tracking 
technology reports that the ball pitched Outside Off 
or In Line, but the batsman shall be Not out if the ball 
pitched Outside Leg.
 3.4.5 IMPACT
	 3.4.5.1	 The	interpretation	of	“the	(first)	point	of	impact,	even	
if in above the level of the bails, is between wicket and 
wicket” in clause 36.1.4 shall refer to the position of the 
ball	at	the	point	of	first	interception,	in	relation	to	the	
Impact Zone.
	 3.4.5.2	 The	Impact	Zone	is	defined	as	a	three	dimensional	space	
extending	between	both	wickets	to	an	indefinite	height	
and with its boundaries consisting of a line between the 
outside of the outer stumps at each end.
 3.4.5.3 The ball-tracking technology shall report that the 
point	of	first	interception	was	in	one	of	the	following	
categories in relation to the Impact Zone:
In Line The centre of the ball was inside the Impact Zone
Umpire’s 
CallSome part of the ball was inside the Impact 
Zone, but the centre of the ball was outside the 
Impact Zone, with the further sub-category of 
‘Umpire’s	Call	(off	side)’	where	the	centre	of	the	
ball was to the off side of the Impact Zone and 
the bowler’s end umpire communicates to the 
third umpire that no genuine attempt to play 
the ball was made by the batsman.
Outside No part of the ball was inside the Impact Zone, 
with	the	further	sub-categories	of	‘Outside	
(off)’	and	‘Outside	(leg)’	to	indicate	the	location	
of	the	point	of	first	interception	in	relation	to	
the Impact Zone when the bowler’s end umpire 
communicates to the third umpire that no 
genuine attempt to play the ball was made by 
the batsman.
 3.4.5.4 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made a genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	In	Line	for	the	
batsman to be eligible to be given Out, otherwise the 
batsman shall remain Not out.
 3.4.5.5 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made no genuine attempt 
to play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that the point of impact was In Line, or Umpire’s Call (off 
side), or Outside (off) for the batsman to be eligible to be 
given Out, otherwise the batsman shall remain Not out.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.114 3.115 3.6.4 Where a request for a Player Review of an LBW decision results 
in	the	on-field	decision	remaining	unchanged	solely	on	the	basis	
of an Umpire’s Call, the Player Review shall be categorised as 
‘Unchanged	–	Umpire’s	Call’.	A	Player	Review	categorised	as	
‘Unchanged	–	Umpire’s	Call’	shall	not	count	towards	the	innings	
limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
 3.6.5 Where, following a request for a Player Review, the original 
on-field	decision	of	Out	is	unchanged,	but	for	a	different	mode	
of	dismissal	from	the	original	on-field	decision,	then	the	Player	
Review shall still be categorised as ’Unsuccessful’.
 3.6.6 Where, following a request for a Player Review, the original 
on-field	decision	of	Not	out	is	unchanged	on	account	of	the	
delivery being a No ball (for any reason), thereby not requiring 
any further evaluation, the Player Review shall not be counted 
as	‘Unsuccessful’	and	accordingly	shall	not	count	towards	the	
innings limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
 3.6.7 Where a Player Review and an Umpire Review are requested 
from the same delivery and the decision of the third umpire from 
the Umpire Review renders the Player Review unnecessary (see 
paragraphs 3.9.2 and 3.9.3), the Player Review request shall be 
disregarded and accordingly shall not count towards the innings 
limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
	 3.6.8	 A	Player	Review	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	may	be	reinstated	
by the ICC Match Referee at his/her sole discretion (if appropriate 
after	consultation	with	the	ICC	Technical	Official	and/or	the	
television broadcast director) if the Player Review could not 
properly be concluded due to a failure of the technology. Any 
such	decision	shall	be	final	and	shall	be	taken	as	soon	as	possible,	
being communicated to both teams once all the relevant facts 
have been ascertained by the ICC Match Referee. A Player Review 
categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	shall	not	be	reinstated	if,	despite	
any technical failures, the correct decision could still have been 
made using the other available technology. Similarly, a Player 
Review	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	shall	not	be	reinstated	
where the technology worked as intended, but the evidence 
gleaned from its use was inconclusive.
 3.6.9 The third umpire shall be responsible for counting the number 
Player	Reviews	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	and	shall	advise	the	
on-field	umpires	once	either	team	has	exhausted	their	allowance	
for the innings. 3.4.7 When the ball strikes the batsman on the full, and the evidence 
provided by the ball-tracking technology indicates that the ball 
would have pitched before striking or passing the wicket, there 
will be no information available from that delivery that will allow 
the ball-tracking technology to accurately predict the height of 
the ball after pitching.
 3.4.8 With regard to determining whether the ball would have hit the 
wicket under these circumstances, the ball-tracking technology 
shall project the line of the ball in accordance with clause 36.2.3 
(it is to be assumed that the path of the ball before interception 
would have continued after interception, irrespective of whether 
the ball might have pitched subsequently or not), and display the 
simulated path of the ball from directly above the wicket.
 3.4.9 The third umpire shall advise the bowler’s end umpire only on 
the	point	of	first	interception	and	whether	the	ball	would	have	
hit the stumps (in line with the process set out in paragraph 3.4 
above), but shall make no comment on the predicted height 
of the ball after pitching, which shall remain a judgment of the 
bowler’s end umpire.
	 3.5	 The	process	for	communicating	the	final	decision
 3.5.1 For Player Reviews concerning potential dismissals, the relevant 
on-field	umpire	shall	indicate	Out	by	raising	his/her	finger	above	
his/her head in a normal yet prominent manner or indicate Not 
out	by	the	call	of	‘not	out’	and	by	crossing	his/her	hands	in	a	
horizontal position side to side in front and above his/her waist 
three	times.	Where	the	decision	is	a	reversal	of	the	on-field	
umpire’s	previous	decision,	he/she	shall	make	the	‘revoke	last	
signal’ indication immediately prior to the above.
 3.5.2 If the mode of dismissal is not obvious or not the same as that 
on which the original decision was based, then the umpire shall 
advise the scorers via the third umpire.
 3.6 Number of Player Review requests permitted
 3.6.1 In each innings, each team shall be allowed to make a maximum 
of two Player Review requests that are categorised as 
‘Unsuccessful’	(as	set	out	in	paragraph	3.6.3	below).
 3.6.2 Where a request for a Player Review results in the original 
on-field	decision	being	reversed,	then	the	Player	Review	shall	
be	categorised	as	‘Successful’	and	shall	not	count	towards	the	
innings limit.
 3.6.3 Where a request for a Player Review results in the original 
on-field	decision	remaining	unchanged	(other	than	in	the	
circumstances set out in paragraphs 3.6.4, 3.6.6 or 3.6.8), the Player 
Review shall be categorised as ’Unsuccessful’.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.116 3.117 3.8.1.5 Approved heat-based edge detection technology:
 • Hot Spot cameras (BBG Sports)
 3.8.1.6 LED Wickets (using the lights to indicate if the wicket is 
broken, as set out in paragraph 4.2):
 • Zing Bails and Stumps
 3.8.2 In addition, other forms of technology may be used subject to 
the	ICC	being	satisfied	that	the	required	standards	of	accuracy	
and	time	efficiency	can	be	met.
 3.8.3 Where practical usage or further testing indicates that any of the 
above forms of technology cannot reliably provide accurate and 
timely information, then it may be removed prior to or during a 
match.	The	final	decision	regarding	the	technology	to	be	used	
in a given match shall be taken by the ICC Match Referee in 
consultation	with	the	ICC	Technical	Official,	ICC	management	and	
the competing teams’ governing bodies.
 3.9 Combining Umpire Review with Player Review
 3.9.1 If an Umpire Review (under paragraph 2) and a request for a 
Player Review (under paragraph 3) are made following the 
same delivery but relating to separate modes of dismissal, the 
following process shall apply.
 3.9.2 The Umpire Review shall be carried out prior to the Player Review 
if all of the following conditions apply:
	 3.9.2.1	 The	Player	Review	has	been	requested	by	the	fielding	side
 3.9.2.2 The Umpire Review and the Player Review both relate to 
the dismissal of the same batsman
 3.9.2.3 If the batsman is out, the number of runs scored from the 
delivery would be the same for both modes of dismissal
 3.9.2.4 If the batsman is out, the batsman on strike for the next 
delivery would be the same for both modes of dismissal.
 3.9.3 If the Umpire Review leads the third umpire to make a decision 
of Out, then this shall be displayed in the usual manner and the 
Player Review shall not be undertaken. If the Umpire Review 
results in a Not out decision, then the third umpire shall make 
no public decision but shall proceed to address the request for a 
Player Review.
 3.9.4  For illustration, following an LBW appeal which is given Not out by 
the bowler’s end umpire, the striker sets off for a run, is sent back 
and there is an appeal for his run out. The players request that the 
LBW decision is reviewed and the umpires request that the run out 
be	reviewed.	The	four	criteria	above	are	satisfied,	so	the	run	out 	
referral	is	determined	first.	Should	the	appeal	for	run	out	be	Out, 	
then there is no requirement for the LBW review to take place.
 3.9.5 In all other circumstances, the incidents shall be addressed in 
chronological	order.	If	the	conclusion	from	the	first	incident	is	
that a batsman is dismissed, then the ball would be deemed to 
have become dead at that point, rendering investigation of the 
second incident unnecessary. 3.6.10 The scoreboard shall display, for the innings in progress, the 
number of Player Reviews remaining available to each team.
CATEGORY OF 
PLAYER REVIEWOUTCOME OF 
PLAYER REVIEW CONSEQUENCE OF 
PLAYER REVIEW
Successful  
(paragraph 3.6.2)On-field	decision	
reversedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out  
in paragraph 3.6.1
Unsuccessful 
(paragraphs 3.6.3  
and 3.6.5)On-field	decision	
unchangedCounts towards  
innings limit set out  
in paragraph 3.6.1
Unchanged	–	
Umpire’s Call 
(paragraph 3.6.4)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out  
in paragraph 3.6.1
No	ball	–	no	
evaluation required 
(paragraph 3.6.6)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out  
in paragraph 3.6.1
Failure of technology 
(paragraph 3.6.8)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out  
in paragraph 3.6.1
 3.7 Dead ball
 3.7.1 If following a Player Review request, an original decision of 
Out is changed to Not out, then the ball is still deemed to have 
become dead when the original decision was made (as per clause 
20.1.1.3).	The	batting	side,	while	benefiting	from	the	reversal	of	the	
dismissal,	shall	not	benefit	from	any	runs	that	may	subsequently	
have	accrued	from	the	delivery	had	the	on-field	umpire	originally	
made a Not out decision, other than any No ball penalty that 
could arise under paragraph 3.3.5 above.
 3.7.2 If an original decision of Not out is changed to Out, the ball 
shall retrospectively be deemed to have become dead from the 
moment of the dismissal event. All subsequent events, including 
any runs scored, shall be ignored.
 3.8 Use of technology
 3.8.1 The following technology may be used by the third umpire during 
a Player Review:
 3.8.1.1 Replays, at any speed, from any available broadcast 
camera
 3.8.1.2 Sound from the stump microphones with the replays at 
normal speed and slow motion
 3.8.1.3 Approved ball-tracking technology: 
 • HawkEye (HawkEye Innovations), or;
 • VirtualEye (ARL)
 3.8.1.4 Approved sound-based edge detection technology:
 • Real-Time Snickometer (BBG Sports), or;
 • UltraEdge (HawkEye Innovations)ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.118 3.119APPENDIX E
CALCULATIONS
Calculation Template for Last Day of Test Match 
This template applies to any interruption on the last day which causes a loss in 
actual playing time, (i.e. an interruption longer than the amount of extra time 
available) and where play resumes after the scheduled tea interval. 
Where play resumes prior to tea, then the calculation of overs remaining in the day 
is performed as per Days 1-4, with the scheduled time for the last hour affected only 
by the adding of any extra time. Lines A, B, C, D and E should be completed at the 
start	of	an	interruption	on	the	final	day.	
If play resumes without any lost playing time, or prior to the tea interval, then this 
sheet can be discarded. 
Once the length of interruption exceeds D and actual playing time is lost, then line 
F can be completed Lines G and H can be completed immediately if the interruption 
starts after tea, otherwise as soon as the interruption includes the tea interval.  4 INTERPRETATION OF PLAYING CONDITIONS
 4.1 When using a replay to determine the moment at which the wicket has 
been put down (as per clause 29.1), the third umpire shall deem this to 
be	the	first	frame	in	which	one	of	the	bails	is	shown	(or	can	be	deduced)	
to have lost all contact with the top of the stumps and subsequent 
frames show the bail permanently removed from the top of the stumps.
 4.2 Where LED Wickets are used (as provided for in paragraph 3.8.1.6) 
the moment at which the wicket has been put down (as per clause 
29.1)	shall	be	deemed	to	be	the	first	frame	in	which	the	LED	lights	are	
illuminated and subsequent frames show the bail permanently removed 
from the top of the stumps.ICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S WORLD TEST CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 03 03
3.120 3.121APPENDIX F
USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
The use of electronic communication devices and equipment of any kind to 
communicate	with	players	on	the	field	of	play	shall	not	be	permitted.CALCULATION TEMPLATE FOR LAST DAY OF TEST MATCH 
A  Start of interruption  ___________
B  Minimum overs remaining before start of last hour as at time A  ___________  
(see Note 1)
C  Time required to bowl minimum overs @ 4 mins per over (B x 4)  ___________
D  Extra time available as at time A  ___________
E  Scheduled time for last hour as at time A  ___________
F  Rescheduled time for last hour (Time basis) (D + E)  ___________
G  Length of intervals covered by interruption:   
enter 40 (lunch), 20 (tea), 60 (both) or 0 (neither) ___________
H  Rescheduled time for last hour (Overs basis) (A + C + D + G)  ___________
I  Later of F and H above ___________
J  Time play resumes  ___________
Case A: If J is earlier than I, play resumes prior to the last hour 
K 	 Minutes	playing	time	lost	(	J	–	A	–	D	–	G	)	 ___________
L  Overs lost @ 4 mins per over (see Note 2) 
M		 Minimum	overs	before	start	of	last	hour	(B	–	L)	(See	Note	1)	
 The last hour then starts at the later of the time in Line F  
and the completion of the overs in Line M  ___________
Case B: If J is not earlier than I, play resumes in the last hour
K		 Time	for	last	hour	to	finish	(I	plus	60	minutes)		 ___________
L  Minutes	remaining	in	last	hour	(K	–	J)	 ___________
M  Overs remaining in last hour (L/4 mins or part thereof) ___________ 
(see Note 1)  
Note 1: If an interruption occurs part-way through an over, in Row B enter the 
number of full overs remaining, ignoring the part over. Then in Row M, add back the 
part over to the minimum overs to be bowled on resumption. 
Note 2: The	actual	overs	lost	for	a	given	interruption	will	also	reflect	any	earlier	
interruptions in the day, so that one over is lost in the day for each full four minutes 
of aggregated playing time lost. For example, 15 minutes loses 3 overs, but another 
15 minute delay loses 4 overs.4.1CONTENTS
1  THE PLAYERS  4.3
2 THE UMPIRES 4.6
3 THE SCORERS 4.11
4 THE BALL 4.12
5  THE BAT 4.12
6 THE PITCH 4.14
7  THE CREASES 4.16
8 THE WICKETS 4.17
9 PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PLAYING AREA 4.18
10 COVERING THE PITCH 4.20
11 INTERVALS 4.20
12 START OF PLAY; CESSATION OF PLAY 4.21
13 INNINGS 4.23
14  THE FOLLOW-ON 4.27
15  DECLARATION AND FORFEITURE 4.27
16  THE RESULT 4.27
17  THE OVER 4.31
18  SCORING RUNS 4.33
19  BOUNDARIES 4.36
20  DEAD BALL 4.38
21  NO BALL 4.41
22  WIDE BALL 4.44
23  BYE AND LEG BYE 4.46
24  FIELDER’S ABSENCE; SUBSTITUTES 4.47
25  BATSMAN’S INNINGS 4.49
26  PRACTICE ON THE FIELD 4.50
27  THE WICKET-KEEPER 4.51
28  THE FIELDER 4.53
29  THE WICKET IS DOWN 4.57
30  BATSMAN OUT OF HIS GROUND 4.58
31  APPEALS 4.59
32  BOWLED 4.60
33  CAUGHT 4.60
34  HIT THE BALL TWICE 4.62
35  HIT WICKET 4.63
36  LEG BEFORE WICKET 4.63
37  OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD 4.64
38  RUN OUT 4.66ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
 04
ICC MEN’S  
ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
Effective from 1 August 2019ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS04
4.2
PREAMBLE
THE SPIRIT OF CRICKET
Cricket owes much of its appeal and enjoyment to the fact that it should be played 
not only according to the Laws (which are incorporated within these Playing 
Conditions), but also within the Spirit of Cricket. 
The major responsibility for ensuring fair play rests with the captains, but extends to all 
players,	match	officials	and,	especially	in	junior	cricket,	teachers,	coaches	and	parents.
Respect is central to the Spirit of Cricket.
Respect your captain, team-mates, opponents and the authority of the umpires.
Play hard and play fair.
Accept the umpire’s decision.
Create a positive atmosphere by your own conduct, and encourage others to do likewise.
Show self-discipline, even when things go against you.
Congratulate the opposition on their successes, and enjoy those of your own team.
Thank	the	officials	and	your	opposition	at	the	end	of	the	match,	whatever	the	result.
Cricket is an exciting game that encourages leadership, friendship and teamwork, 
which brings together people from different nationalities, cultures and religions, 
especially when played within the Spirit of Cricket.
 1 THE PLAYERS
 1.1 Number of players
  A match is played between two sides, each of eleven players, one of 
whom shall be captain.
 1.2 Nomination and replacement of players
 1.2.1 Each captain shall nominate 11 players plus a maximum of 4 
substitute	fielders	in	writing	to	the	ICC	Match	Referee	before	the 	
toss. Other than set out in clause 1.2.7, no player (member of the 
playing eleven) may be changed after the nomination without the 
consent of the opposing captain.
	 1.2.2	 Only	those	nominated	as	substitute	fielders	shall	be	entitled	to 	
act	as	substitute	fielders	during	the	match,	unless	the	ICC	Match 	
Referee, in exceptional circumstances, allows subsequent additions.
 1.2.3 All those nominated including those nominated as substitute 
fielders,	as	well	as	any	Concussion	Replacements,	must	be	eligible	to 	
play for that particular team and by such nomination the nominees 
shall warrant that they are so eligible.
 1.2.4 In addition, by their nomination, the nominees shall be deemed 
to have agreed to abide by all the applicable ICC Regulations 
pertaining to international cricket and in particular, the Clothing 
and Equipment Regulations, the Code of Conduct for Players and 
Player Support Personnel (hereafter referred to as the ICC Code 
of Conduct), the Anti-Racism Code for Players and Player Support 
Personnel, the Anti-Doping Code and the Anti-Corruption Code.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04
4.339  STUMPED 4.67
40  TIMED OUT 4.67
41  UNFAIR PLAY 4.68
42  PLAYERS’ CONDUCT 4.80
APPENDIX A DEFINITIONS 4.84
1  The match 4.84
2  Implements and equipment 4.85
3  The playing area 4.85
4  Positioning 4.85
5  Umpires and decision-making 4.86
6  Batsmen 4.87
7  Fielders 4.88
8  Substitutes and Concussion Replacements 4.88
9  Bowlers 4.88
10  The ball 4.89
11  Runs 4.89
12  The person 4.89
13  Off side / on side; in front of / behind the popping crease  4.91
APPENDIX B EQUIPMENT 4.92
1  The Bat 4.92
2  The wickets 4.95
3  Wicket-keeping gloves 4.96
APPENDIX C THE VENUE 4.97
1  The pitch and the creases 4.97
2		 Restriction	on	the	placement	of	fielders 4.98
3  Advertising on grounds, perimeter boards and sight-screens  4.99
4		 Markings	on	outfield 4.99
APPENDIX D DECISION REVIEW SYSTEM (DRS)  
AND THIRD UMPIRE PROTOCOL 4.100
1  General 4.100
2  Umpire Review 4.102
3  Player Review 4.105
4  Interpretation of Playing Conditions 4.114
APPENDIX E CALCULATIONS 4.115
APPENDIX F APPLICATION OF THE RESERVE DAY 4.118
APPENDIX G USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT 4.119ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.4 4.5 1.2.8  The ICC Match Referee should ordinarily approve a Concussion 
Replacement Request if the replacement is a like-for-like player 
whose inclusion will not excessively advantage his team for the 
remainder of the match.
 1.2.8.1  In assessing whether the nominated Concussion 
Replacement should be considered a like-for-like player, 
the ICC Match Referee should consider the likely role 
the concussed player would have played during the 
remainder of the match, and the normal role that would 
be performed by the nominated Concussion Replacement.
 1.2.8.2  If the ICC Match Referee believes that the inclusion 
of the nominated Concussion Replacement, when 
performing their normal role, would excessively 
advantage their team, the Match Referee may impose 
such conditions upon the identity and involvement of 
the	Concussion	Replacement	as	he/she	sees	fit,	in	line	
with the overriding objective of facilitating a like-for-like 
replacement for the concussed player.
 1.2.8.3  The ICC Match Referee may, in reviewing a Concussion 
Replacement Request made in accordance with clause 
1.2.7.3, request any such further information as may be 
required in order to make the determination required 
under clauses 1.2.8.1 and 1.2.8.2.
 1.2.9  The decision of the ICC Match Referee in relation to any 
Concussion	Replacement	Request	shall	be	final	and	neither	team	
shall have any right of appeal.
 1.2.10  Once the Concussion Replacement has been approved by the ICC 
Match Referee, the replaced player shall play no further part in 
the match.
 1.2.11  Both the Concussion Replacement and the replaced player 
shall be considered to have played in the match for records and 
statistical purposes.
 1.3 Captain
 1.3.1 If at any time the captain is not available, a deputy shall act for him.
 1.3.2 If a captain is not available to nominate the players, then any 
person associated with that team may act as his deputy to do so. 
See clause1.2.
 1.3.3 At any time after the nomination of the players, only a 
nominated player can act as deputy in discharging the duties 
and responsibilities of the captain as stated in these Playing 
Conditions, including at the toss. See clause 13.4 (The toss).
 1.4 Responsibility of captains
  The captains are responsible at all times for ensuring that play  
is conducted within The Spirit of Cricket as well as within these  
Playing Conditions. 1.2.5 A player or player support personnel who has been suspended 
from participating in a match shall not, from the toss of the coin 
and for the remainder of the match thereafter:
 1.2.5.1 Be nominated as, or carry out any of the duties or 
responsibilities	of	a	substitute	fielder,	or
 1.2.5.2 Enter any part of the playing area (which shall include 
the	field	of	play	and	the	area	between	the	boundary	
and the perimeter boards) at any time, including any 
scheduled or unscheduled breaks in play.
 1.2.6  A player who has been suspended from participating in a 
match shall be permitted from the toss of the coin and for the 
remainder of the match thereafter be permitted to enter the 
players’ dressing room provided that the players’ dressing room 
(or any part thereof) for the match is not within the playing area 
described in clause 1.2.5.2 above (for example, the player is not 
permitted	to	enter	the	on-field	‘dug-out’).
 1.2.7  If a player sustains a concussion or suspected concussion as a 
result of a head or neck injury during the course of the relevant 
match, a Concussion Replacement may be permitted in the 
following circumstances:
 1.2.7.1  the head or neck injury must have been sustained during 
play and within the playing area described in clause 
1.2.5.2 above;
 1.2.7.2  a concussion or suspected concussion must have been 
formally diagnosed by the Team Medical Representative;
 1.2.7.3  the Team Medical Representative or Team Manager shall 
submit a Concussion Replacement Request to the ICC 
Match Referee on a standard form, which shall:
 1.2.7.3.1  identify the player who has sustained the 
concussion or suspected concussion;
 1.2.7.3.2  specify the incident in which the concussion or 
suspected concussion was sustained, including 
the time at which it occurred;
	 1.2.7.3.3		 confirm	that,	following	an	examination,	the	Team 	
Medical Representative believes or suspects that 
the player has sustained a concussion as a result 
of	the	incident	specified	in	1.2.7.3.2	above;	and
 1.2.7.3.4  identify the requested Concussion 
Replacement, who shall be a like-for-like 
replacement for the player who has sustained 
the concussion or suspected concussion.
 1.2.7.4  The Concussion Replacement Request must be submitted 
as	soon	as	possible	after	the	incident	specified	in	1.2.7.3.2	if 	
a Concussion Replacement is to be permitted.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.6 4.7 2.2 Change of umpire
  An umpire shall not be changed during the match, other than in 
exceptional circumstances, unless he/she is injured or ill.
 2.3 Consultation with Home Board
  Before the match the umpires shall consult with the Home Board  
to determine;
 2.3.1 the balls to be used during the match. See clause 4 (The ball).
 2.3.2 the hours of play and the times and durations of any agreed 
intervals. 
 2.3.3 which clock or watch and back-up time piece is to be used during 
the match.
	 2.3.4	 the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play.	See	clause	19	(Boundaries).
 2.3.5 the use of covers. See clause 10 (Covering the pitch).
 2.3.6 any special conditions of play affecting the conduct of the match.
 inform the scorers of agreements in 2.3.2, 2.3.3, 2.3.4 and 2.3.6.
 2.4 The wickets, creases and boundaries
  Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy 
themselves that:
 2.4.1 the wickets are properly pitched. See clause 8 (The wickets)
 2.4.2 the creases are correctly marked. See clause 7 (The creases).
	 2.4.3	 the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play	complies	with	the	requirements	
of	clauses	19.1	(Determining	the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play),	  
19.2 (Identifying and marking the boundary) and 19.3 (Restoring 
the boundary).
 2.5 Conduct of the match, implements and equipment
  Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy 
themselves that
 2.5.1 the conduct of the match is strictly in accordance with these 
Playing Conditions.
 2.5.2 the implements used in the match conform to the following
 2.5.2.1 clause 4 (The ball).
 2.5.2.2 externally visible requirements of clause 5 (The bat) and 
paragraph 1 of Appendix B
 2.5.2.3 either clauses 8.2 (Size of stumps) and 8.3 (The bails).
 2.5.3 no player uses equipment other than that permitted. See 
paragraph 2 of Appendix A. Note particularly therein the 
interpretation	of	‘protective	helmet’.
 2.5.4 the wicket-keeper’s gloves comply with the requirements of 
clause 27.2 (Gloves).
  2 THE UMPIRES
 2.1 Appointment and attendance
  The following rules for the selection and appointment of ODI umpires 
shall be followed as far as it is practicable to do so:
 2.1.1 The umpires shall control the game as required by these Playing 
Conditions, with absolute impartiality and shall be present at the 
ground	at	least	two	hours	before	the	scheduled	start	of	the	first 	
day’s play, and at least 1.5 hours before the scheduled start of play.
	 2.1.2	 The	ICC	shall	establish	an	‘Elite	Panel’	of	umpires	who	shall	be	
contracted to the ICC.
	 2.1.3	 Each	Full	Member	shall	nominate	from	its	panel	of	first	class	
umpires	up	to	four	umpires	to	an	‘International	Panel’.
 2.1.4 The ICC shall appoint one umpire to stand in each ODI match. 
Such umpire shall not be from the same country as the 
participating	teams	and	shall	be	selected	from	the	‘Elite	Panel’	or	
the	‘International	Panel’.
 2.1.5 The Home Board shall appoint one umpire to stand in each ODI. 
Such umpire shall be selected from its umpires on the Elite or 
International Panel.
 2.1.6 As early as possible before each ODI Match, the ICC will advise the 
Home Board of the names of its appointees and the Home Board 
will advise the Manager of the visiting team of all umpires’ names.
 2.1.7 In ODI matches where the DRS is used, the ICC will appoint a 
third	umpire	who	shall	act	as	the	emergency	on-field	umpire	
and	officiate	in	regard	to	the	DRS.	Such	third	umpire	shall	not	be	
from the same country as the participating teams and shall be 
appointed	from	the	‘Elite	Panel’	or	the	‘International	Panel’.
 2.1.8 In all other ODI matches, the third umpire will be appointed by 
the	Home	Board	and	shall	act	as	the	emergency	on-field	umpire	
and	officiate	in	regard	to	TV	replays.	Such	appointment	shall	be	
made	from	the	‘Elite	Panel’	or	the	‘International	Panel’.
 2.1.8.1 The playing conditions governing the use of the DRS  
and the third umpire are included in Appendix D.
 2.1.9 The Home Board shall also appoint a fourth umpire for each ODI 
match	from	its	panel	of	first	class	umpires.	The	fourth	umpire	
shall	act	as	the	emergency	third	umpire.	In	‘DRS’	ODI	matches	the	
fourth umpire shall be appointed from the “International Panel”. 
 2.1.10 The ICC shall appoint the match referee for all matches  
(ICC Match Referee).
 2.1.11 The ICC Match Referee shall not be from the same country as the 
participating teams.
 2.1.12 Neither team will have a right of objection to the appointment of 
any umpire or match referee.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.8 4.9 2.8.5.2 The umpires shall be entitled to use light meter readings as 
a	guideline	for	determining	whether	the	light	is	fit	for	play 	
in accordance with the criteria set out in clause 2.8.2 above.
 2.8.5.3 Light meter readings may accordingly be used by  
the umpires:
 2.8.5.3.1  To determine whether there has been at any 
stage a deterioration or improvement in the light.
 2.8.5.3.2 As benchmarks for the remainder of a match.
	 2.8.6	 Use	of	artificial	lights
  If in the opinion of the umpires, natural light is deteriorating to an 
unfit	level,	they	shall	authorize	the	Ground	Authority	to	use	the	
available	artificial	lighting	so	that	the	match	can	commence	or	
continue in acceptable conditions.
  In the event of power failure or lights malfunction, the provisions 
relating to the delay or interruption of play due to bad weather 
or light shall apply.
 2.8.7 When there is a suspension of play it is the responsibility of the 
umpires to monitor conditions. They shall make inspections as 
often	as	appropriate,	unaccompanied	by	any	players	or	officials.	
Immediately the umpires together agree that the conditions are 
no longer dangerous or unreasonable they shall call upon the 
players to resume play.
 2.8.8 The safety of all persons within the ground is of paramount 
importance to the ICC. In the event that of any threatening 
circumstance, whether actual or perceived (including for example 
weather, pitch invasions, act of God, etc.), then the umpires, on 
the advice of the ICC Match Referee, should suspend play and all 
players	and	officials	should	immediately	be	asked	to	leave	the	field 	
of play in a safe and orderly manner and to relocate to a secure 
and safe area (depending on each particular threat) pending the 
satisfactory passing or resolution of such threat or risk to the 
reasonable satisfaction of the umpires, the ICC Match Referee, the 
head of the relevant Ground Authority, the head of ground security 
and/or the police as the circumstances may require.
 2.8.9 Where play is suspended under clause 2.8.8 above the decision 
to abandon or resume play shall be the responsibility of the ICC 
Match Referee who shall act only after consultation with the 
head of ground security and the police.
 2.9 Position of umpires
  The umpires shall stand where they can best see any act upon which 
their decision may be required.
  Subject to this over-riding consideration, the bowler’s end umpire shall 
stand in a position so as not to interfere with either the bowler’s run-up 
or the striker’s view.
  The striker’s end umpire may elect to stand on the off side instead of the 
on	side	of	the	pitch,	provided	he/she	informs	the	captain	of	the	fielding	
side, the striker and the other umpire. 2.6 Fair and unfair play
 The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play.
 2.7 Fitness for play
 2.7.1 It is solely for the umpires together to decide whether 
either conditions of ground, weather or light or exceptional 
circumstances mean that it would be dangerous or unreasonable 
for play to take place.
  Conditions shall not be regarded as either dangerous or 
unreasonable merely because they are not ideal.
  The fact that the grass and the ball are wet does not warrant the 
ground conditions being regarded as unreasonable or dangerous.
 2.7.2 Conditions shall be regarded as dangerous if there is actual and 
foreseeable risk to the safety of any player or umpire.
 2.7.3 Conditions shall be regarded as unreasonable if, although posing 
no risk to safety, it would not be sensible for play to proceed.
 2.7.4 If the umpires consider the ground is so wet or slippery as to 
deprive	the	bowler	of	a	reasonable	foothold,	the	fielders	of	
the power of free movement, or the batsmen of the ability 
to play their strokes or to run between the wickets, then 
these conditions shall be regarded as so bad that it would be 
dangerous and unreasonable for play to take place.
 2.8 Suspension of play in dangerous or unreasonable circumstances
 2.8.1 All references to ground include the pitch. See clause 6.1  
(Area of pitch).
 2.8.2 If at any time the umpires together agree that the conditions 
of ground, weather or light, or any other circumstances are 
dangerous or unreasonable, they shall immediately suspend play, 
or not allow play to start or to recommence. The decision as to 
whether conditions are so bad as to warrant such action is one 
for the umpires alone to make, following consultation with the 
ICC Match Referee.
 2.8.3 If circumstances are warranted, the umpires shall stop play and 
instruct the Ground Authority to take whatever action they can 
and use whatever equipment is necessary to remove as much 
dew	as	possible	from	the	outfield	when	conditions	become	
unreasonable or dangerous. The umpires may also instruct 
the ground staff to take such action during scheduled and 
unscheduled breaks in play.
 2.8.4 The umpires shall disregard any shadow on the pitch from the 
stadium or from any permanent object on the ground.
 2.8.5 Light Meters
  It is the responsibility of the ICC to supply light meters to the match 
officials	to	be	used	in	accordance	with	these	playing	conditions.
 2.8.5.1 All light meters shall be uniformly calibrated.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.10 4.11  The following signal is for Level 4 player conduct 
offences. The signal has two parts, both of which should 
be acknowledged separately by the scorers.
  Level 4 conduct
	 	 Part	1	–	by	putting	one	arm	out	to	the	side	of	the	body	
and repeatedly raising it and lowering it.
	 	 Part	2	–	by	raising	an	index	finger,	held	at	shoulder	
height, to the side of the body.
 2.13.1.4 All the signals in clause 2.13.1.3 are to be made by the 
bowler’s end umpire except that for Short run, which 
is to be signalled by the umpire at the end where short 
running occurs. However, the bowler’s end umpire 
shall	be	responsible	both	for	the	final	signal	of	Short	
run to the scorers and, if more than one run is short, for 
informing them as to the number of runs to be recorded.
 2.13.2 The umpire shall wait until each signal to the scorers has been 
separately acknowledged by a scorer before allowing play to proceed.
  If several signals are to be used, they should be given in the order 
that the events occurred.
 2.14 Informing the umpires
  Wherever the umpires are to receive information from captains or other 
players	under	these	Playing	Conditions,	it	will	be	sufficient	for	one	
umpire to be so informed and for him/her to inform the other umpire.
 2.15 Correctness of scores
  Consultation between umpires and scorers on doubtful points is 
essential. The umpires shall, throughout the match, satisfy themselves as 
to the correctness of the number of runs scored, the wickets that have 
fallen and, where appropriate, the number of overs bowled.
  The umpires shall ensure that they are able to contact the scorers at 
any time during the match and at its conclusion to address any issues 
relating to the correctness of scores.
 3 THE SCORERS
 3.1 Appointment of scorers
  Two scorers shall be appointed to record all runs scored, all wickets 
taken and, where appropriate, number of overs bowled.
 3.2 Correctness of scores
  The scorers shall frequently check to ensure that their records agree  
and consult with the umpires if necessary. See clause 2.15 (Correctness 
of scores).
 3.3 Acknowledging signals
  The scorers shall accept all instructions and signals given to them by the 
umpires and shall immediately acknowledge each separate signal. 2.10 Umpires changing ends
  Shall not apply.
 2.11 Disagreement and dispute
  Where there is disagreement or dispute about any matter, the umpires 
together	shall	make	the	final	decision.	See	also	clause	31.6	(Consultation	
by umpires).
 2.12 Umpire’s decision
  An umpire may alter any decision provided that such alteration is made 
promptly.	This	apart,	an	umpire’s	decision,	once	made,	is	final.
 2.13 Signals
 2.13.1 The following code of signals shall be used by umpires.
 2.13.1.1 Signals made while the ball is in play
	 	 No	ball	–	by	extending	one	arm	horizontally.
	 	 Out	–	by	raising	an	index	finger	above	the	head.	 
(If not out, the umpire shall call Not out.)
	 	 Wide	–	by	extending	both	arms	horizontally.
	 	 Dead	ball	–	by	crossing	and	re-crossing	the	wrists	below	
the waist.
 2.13.1.2 When the ball is dead, the bowler’s end umpire shall 
repeat the signals in clause 2.13.1.1, with the exception of 
the signal for Out, to the scorers.
 2.13.1.3 The signals listed below shall be made to the scorers only 
when the ball is dead.
	 	 Boundary	4	–	by	waving	an	arm	from	side	to	side	finishing	
with the arm across the chest.
	 	 Boundary	6	–	by	raising	both	arms	above	the	head.
	 	 Bye	–	by	raising	an	open	hand	above	the	head.
	 	 Five	Penalty	runs	awarded	to	the	batting	side	–	by	repeated 	
tapping of one shoulder with the opposite hand.
	 	 Five	Penalty	runs	awarded	to	the	fielding	side	–	 
by placing one hand on the opposite shoulder.
	 	 Leg	bye	–	by	touching	a	raised	knee	with	the	hand.
	 	 Revoke	last	signal	–	by	touching	both	shoulders,	 
each with the opposite hand.
	 	 Short	run	–	by	bending	one	arm	upwards	and	touching	
the	nearer	shoulder	with	the	tips	of	the	fingers.
	 	 Free	Hit	–	after	signaling	the	No	ball,	the	bowler’s	end	
umpire extends one arm straight upwards and moves it in 
a circular motion.
	 	 Powerplay	Over	–	by	rotating	his	arm	in	a	large	circle.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.12 4.13 5.2 The handle
 5.2.1 The handle is to be made principally of cane and/or wood.
	 5.2.2	 The	part	of	the	handle	that	is	wholly	outside	the	blade	is	defined	
to be the upper portion of the handle. It is a straight shaft for 
holding the bat.
 5.2.3 The upper portion of the handle may be covered with a grip as 
defined	in	paragraph	1.2.2	of	Appendix	B.
 5.3 The blade
 5.3.1 The blade comprises the whole of the bat apart from the handle 
as	defined	in	clause	5.2	and	in	paragraph	1.3	of	Appendix	B.
 5.3.2 The blade shall consist solely of wood.
 5.4 Protection and repair
	 	 Subject	to	the	specifications	in	paragraph	1.4	of	Appendix	B.	and	
providing clause 5.5 is not contravened,
 5.4.1 solely for the purposes of
  either 
  protection from surface damage to the face, sides and shoulders 
of the blade
  or
  repair to the blade after surface damage,
  material that is not rigid, either at the time of its application to 
the blade or subsequently, may be placed on these surfaces.
 5.4.2 for repair of the blade after damage other than surface damage
 5.4.2.1 solid material may be inserted into the blade.
 5.4.2.2 The only material permitted for any insertion is wood 
with minimal essential adhesives.
 5.4.3 to prevent damage to the toe, material may be placed on that 
part of the blade but shall not extend over any part of the face, 
back or sides of the blade.
 5.5 Damage to the ball
 5.5.1 For any part of the bat, covered or uncovered, the hardness 
of the constituent materials and the surface texture thereof 
shall not be such that either or both could cause unacceptable 
damage to the ball.
 5.5.2 Any material placed on any part of the bat, for whatever purpose, 
shall similarly not be such that it could cause unacceptable 
damage to the ball.
 5.5.3 For the purpose of this clause, unacceptable damage is any 
change that is greater than normal wear and tear caused by the 
ball striking the uncovered wooden surface of the blade. 4 THE BALL
 4.1 Weight and size
  The ball, when new, shall weigh not less than 5.5 ounces/155.9 g, nor 
more than 5.75 ounces/163 g, and shall measure not less than 8.81 in/22.4 
cm, nor more than 9 in/22.9 cm in circumference.
 4.2 Approval and control of balls
 4.2.1 The Home Board shall provide white cricket balls of an approved 
standard for ODI cricket and spare used balls for changing during 
a match, which shall also be of the same brand. Note: The Home 
Board shall be required to advise the Visiting Board of the brand 
of ball to be used in the match(es) at least 30 days prior to the 
start of the match(es).
	 4.2.2	 The	fielding	captain	or	his	nominee	may	select	the	ball	with	which 	
he wishes to bowl from the supply provided by the Home Board. 
The fourth umpire shall take a box containing at least 6 new balls 
to the dressing room and supervise the selection of the ball.
 4.2.3 The umpires shall retain possession of the match ball(s) 
throughout the duration of the match when play is not actually 
taking place.
 4.2.4 During play umpires shall periodically and irregularly inspect the 
condition of the ball and shall retain possession of it at the fall of 
a wicket, a drinks interval, or any other disruption in play.
 4.3 New ball
	 4.3.1	 Each	fielding	team	shall	have	two	new	balls	for	its	innings,	to	be	
used in alternate overs i.e. one from each end.
	 4.3.2	 In	a	match	reduced	to	25	overs	or	less	per	side	before	the	first	
innings commences, each team shall have only one new ball for 
its Innings.
	 4.4	 Ball	lost	or	becoming	unfit	for	play
  If, during play, the ball cannot be found or recovered or the umpires 
agree	that	it	has	become	unfit	for	play	through	normal	use,	the	
umpires shall replace it with a ball which has had wear comparable 
with that which the previous ball had received before the need for its 
replacement. When the ball is replaced, the umpire shall inform the 
batsmen	and	the	fielding	captain.
 5 THE BAT
 5.1 The bat
 5.1.1 The bat consists of two parts, a handle and a blade.
 5.1.2 The basic requirements and measurements of the bat are set 
out	in	this	clause	with	detailed	specifications	in	paragraph	1	of	
Appendix B.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.14 4.15 6.2 Fitness of pitch for play
	 	 The	umpires	shall	be	the	sole	judges	of	the	fitness	of	the	pitch	for	
play. See clauses 2.7 (Fitness for play) and 2.8 (Suspension of play in 
dangerous or unreasonable conditions).
 6.3 Selection and preparation
  Before the match, the Ground Authority shall be responsible for the 
selection and preparation of the pitch. During the match, the umpires 
shall control its use and maintenance.
 6.3.1 The Ground Authority shall ensure that during the period prior 
to the start of play and during intervals, the pitch area shall be 
roped off so as to prevent unauthorised access. (The pitch area 
shall include an area at least 2 metres beyond the rectangle made 
by the crease markings at both ends of the pitch).
 6.3.2 The fourth umpire shall ensure that, prior to the start of play and 
during	any	intervals,	only	authorised	staff,	the	ICC	match	officials,	
players, team coaches and authorised television personnel shall 
be allowed access to the pitch area. Such access shall be subject 
to the following limitations:
 6.3.2.1 Only captains and team coaches may walk on the  
actual playing surface of the pitch area (outside of the 
crease markings).
 6.3.2.2 Access to the pitch area by television personnel shall 
be restricted to one camera crew (including one or 
two	television	commentators)	of	the	official	licensed	
television broadcaster(s) (but not news crews).
 6.3.2.3 No spiked footwear shall be permitted.
 6.3.2.4 No one shall be permitted to bounce a ball on the pitch, 
strike it with a bat or cause damage to the pitch in any 
other way.
 6.3.2.5 Access shall not interfere with pitch preparation.
 6.3.3 In the event of any dispute, the ICC Match Referee will rule and 
his	ruling	will	be	final.
 6.4 Changing the pitch
	 6.4.1	 If	the	on-field	umpires	decide	that	it	is	dangerous	or	
unreasonable for play to continue on the match pitch, they shall 
stop play and immediately advise the ICC Match Referee.
	 6.4.2	 The	on-field	umpires	and	the	ICC	Match	Referee	shall	then	
consult with both captains.
 6.4.3 If the captains agree to continue, play shall resume.
	 6.4.4	 If	the	decision	is	not	to	resume	play,	the	on-field	umpires	
together with the ICC Match Referee shall consider whether the 
existing pitch can be repaired and the match resumed from the 
point it was stopped. In considering whether to authorise such 
repairs, the ICC Match Referee must consider whether this would 
place either side at an unfair advantage, given the play that had 
already taken place on the dangerous pitch. 5.6 Contact with the ball
  In these clauses,
 5.6.1 reference to the bat shall imply that the bat is held in the batsman’s 
hand or a glove worn on his hand, unless stated otherwise.
 5.6.2 contact between the ball and any of 5.6.2.1 to 5.6.2.4
 5.6.2.1 the bat itself
 5.6.2.2 the batsman’s hand holding the bat
 5.6.2.3 any part of a glove worn on the batsman’s hand holding 
the bat
 5.6.2.4 any additional materials permitted under 5.4
  shall be regarded as the ball striking or touching the bat or being 
struck by the bat.
 5.7 Bat size limits
 5.7.1 The overall length of the bat, when the lower portion of the 
handle is inserted, shall not be more than 38 in/96.52 cm.
 5.7.2 The blade of the bat shall not exceed the following dimensions:
  Width: 4.25in / 10.8 cm
  Depth: 2.64in / 6.7 cm
  Edges: 1.56in / 4.0cm
  Furthermore, it should also be able to pass through a bat gauge 
as described in paragraph 1.6 of Appendix B.
 5.7.3 The handle shall not exceed 52% of the overall length of the bat.
 5.7.4 The material permitted for covering the blade in clause 5.4.1 shall 
not exceed 0.04 in/0.1 cm in thickness.
 5.7.5 The maximum permitted thickness of protective material placed 
on the toe of the blade is 0.12 in/0.3 cm.
 5.8 Categories of bat
 5.8.1 Type A bats conform to clauses 5.1 to 5.7 inclusive.
 5.8.2 Only Type A bats may be used in ODI matches.
 6 THE PITCH
 6.1 Area of pitch
  The pitch is a rectangular area of the ground 22 yards/20.12 m in length 
and 10 ft/3.05 m in width. It is bounded at either end by the bowling 
creases and on either side by imaginary lines, one each side of the 
imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps, each parallel 
to	it	and	5	ft/1.52	m	from	it.	If	the	pitch	is	next	to	an	artificial	pitch	which 	
is closer than 5 ft/1.52 m from the middle stumps, the pitch on that side 
will extend only to the junction of the two surfaces. See clauses 8.1 
(Description, width and pitching) and 7.2 (The bowling crease).ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.16 4.17 7.4 The return creases
  The return creases, which are the inside edges of the crease markings, 
shall be at right angles to the popping crease at a distance of 4 ft 4 
in/1.32 m either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two 
middle stumps. Each return crease shall be marked from the popping 
crease to a minimum of 8 ft/2.44 m behind it and shall be considered to 
be unlimited in length.
 7.5 Additional Crease Markings
  As a guideline to the umpires for the calling of Wides on the offside, the 
crease markings detailed in paragraph 1 of Appendix C may be marked in 
white at each end of the pitch.
 8 THE WICKETS
 8.1 Description, width and pitching
  Two sets of wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other 
in the centres of the bowling creases. Each set shall be 9 in/22.86 cm 
wide and shall consist of three wooden stumps with two wooden bails 
on top. See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
 8.2 Size of stumps
  The tops of the stumps shall be 28 in/71.12 cm above the playing surface 
and shall be dome shaped except for the bail grooves. The portion of 
a stump above the playing surface shall be cylindrical apart from the 
domed top, with circular section of diameter not less than 1.38 in/3.50 
cm nor more than 1.5 in/3.81 cm. See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
  For televised matches the Home Board may provide a slightly larger 
cylindrical stump to accommodate the stump camera. When the larger 
stump is used, all three stumps must be exactly the same size.
 8.3 The bails
 8.3.1 The bails, when in position on top of the stumps,
	 –		shall	not	project	more	than	0.5	in/1.27	cm	above	them.
	 –		shall	fit	between	the	stumps	without	forcing	them	out	of	 
the vertical.
	 8.3.2	 Each	bail	shall	conform	to	the	following	specifications.	 
See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
  Overall length 4.31 in/10.95 cm
  Length of barrel 2.13 in/5.40 cm
  Longer spigot 1.38 in/3.50 cm
  Shorter spigot 0.81 in/2.06 cm.
 8.3.3 The two spigots and the barrel shall have the same centre line.
 8.3.4 Devices aimed at protecting player safety by limiting the distance 
that a bail can travel off the stumps will be allowed, subject to 
the approval of the Home Board and the ICC. 6.4.5 If the decision is that the existing pitch cannot be repaired, then 
the match is to be abandoned with the following consequences: 
 6.4.5.1 In the event of the required number of overs to 
constitute a match having been completed at the time 
the match is abandoned, the result shall be determined 
according to the provisions of clause 16.4.2.
 6.4.5.2 In the event of the required number of overs to 
constitute a match not having been completed, the 
match will be abandoned as a no result.
 6.4.6 If the abandonment occurs on the day of the match, the ICC 
Match Referee shall consult with the Home Board with the 
objective	of	finding	a	way	for	a	new	match	(including	a	new	
nomination of teams and toss) to commence on the same date 
and venue. Such a match may be played either on the repaired 
pitch or on another pitch, subject to the ICC Match Referee and 
the	relevant	Ground	Authority	both	being	satisfied	that	the	new	
pitch will be of the required ODI standard. The playing time lost 
between the scheduled start time of the original match and 
the actual start time of the new match will be covered by the 
provisions of clause 12.
 6.4.7 If it is not possible to start a new match on the scheduled day of 
the	match,	the	relevant	officials	from	the	participating	Boards	
shall agree on whether the match can be replayed within the 
existing tour schedule.
 6.4.8 Throughout the above decision making processes, the ICC Match 
Referee shall keep informed both captains and the head of the 
Ground Authority. The head of the Ground Authority shall ensure 
that suitable and prompt public announcements are made.
 6.5 Non-turf pitches
  All ODI matches shall be played on natural turf pitches. The use of PVA 
and other adhesives in the preparation of pitches is not permitted.
 7 THE CREASES
 7.1 The creases
  The positions of a bowling crease, a popping crease and two return 
creases shall be marked by white lines, as set out in clauses 7.2, 7.3 and 
7.4, at each end of the pitch. See paragraph 1 of Appendix C.
 7.2 The bowling crease
  The bowling crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, is 
the line that marks the end of the pitch, as in clause 6.1 (Area of pitch). It 
shall be 8 ft 8 in/2.64 m in length.
 7.3 The popping crease
  The popping crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, shall 
be in front of and parallel to the bowling crease and shall be 4 ft/1.22 m 
from it. The popping crease shall be marked to a minimum of 15 yards/13.71 
m on either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two 
middle stumps and shall be considered to be unlimited in length.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.18 4.19 9.2 Clearing debris from the pitch
 9.2.1 The pitch shall be cleared of any debris
 9.2.1.1 between innings. This shall precede rolling if any is to 
take place.
 9.2.1.2 at all intervals for meals.
 9.2.2 The clearance of debris in clause 9.2.1 shall be done by sweeping, 
except where the umpires consider that this may be detrimental 
to the surface of the pitch. In this case the debris must be cleared 
from that area by hand, without sweeping.
 9.2.3 In addition to 9.2.1, debris may be cleared from the pitch by hand, 
without sweeping, before mowing and whenever either umpire 
considers it necessary.
 9.3 Mowing
 9.3.1 Responsibility for mowing
 9.3.1.1 All mowings which are carried out before the match shall 
be the sole responsibility of the Ground Authority.
 9.4 Watering the pitch
  The pitch shall not be watered during the match.
 9.5 Re-marking creases
  Creases shall be re-marked whenever either umpire considers it necessary.
 9.6 Maintenance of footholes
  The umpires shall ensure that the holes made by the bowlers and 
batsmen are cleaned out and dried whenever necessary to facilitate play.
	 	 The	umpires	shall	allow,	if	necessary,	the	returfing	of	footholes	made	by	
the	bowlers	in	their	delivery	strides,	or	the	use	of	quick-setting	fillings	
for the same purpose.
  In addition, the umpires shall see that wherever possible and whenever 
it is considered necessary, action is taken during all intervals in play to 
do whatever is practicable to improve the bowler’s footholes. 
 9.7 Securing of footholds and maintenance of pitch
  During play, umpires shall allow the players to secure their footholds by 
the use of sawdust provided that no damage to the pitch is caused and 
that clause 41 (Unfair play) is not contravened.
 9.8 Protection and preparation of adjacent pitches during matches
  The protection (by way of an appropriate cover) and preparation of 
pitches which are adjacent to the match pitch will be permitted during 
the match subject to the following:
 9.8.1 Such measures will only be possible if requested by the Ground 
Authority and approved by the umpires before the start of the match.
 9.8.2 Approval should only be granted where such measures are 
unavoidable and will not compromise the safety of the players or 
their ability to execute their actions with complete freedom. 8.4 Dispensing with bails
  The umpires may agree to dispense with the use of bails, if necessary. 
If they so agree then no bails shall be used at either end. The use of 
bails shall be resumed as soon as conditions permit. See clause 29.4 
(Dispensing with bails).
 8.5 LED Wickets
  The use of approved LED Wickets is permitted. Refer also to paragraphs 
3.8.1.6 and 4.2 of Appendix D. 
 9 PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PLAYING AREA
 9.1 Rolling
  The pitch shall not be rolled during the match except as permitted in 
clauses 9.1.1 and 9.1.2.
 9.1.1 Frequency and duration of rolling
  During the match the pitch may be rolled at the request of the 
captain of the side batting second, for a period of not more than 
7 minutes, before the start of the second innings.
 9.1.2 Rolling after a delayed start
  In addition to the rolling permitted above, if, after the toss and 
before	the	first	innings	of	the	match,	the	start	is	delayed,	the	
captain of the batting side may request that the pitch be rolled 
for not more than 7 minutes. However, if the umpires together 
agree	that	the	delay	has	had	no	significant	effect	on	the	state	of	
the pitch, they shall refuse such request for rolling of the pitch.
 9.1.3 Choice of rollers
  If there is more than one roller available the captain of the 
batting side shall choose which one is to be used.
  The following shall apply in addition to clause 9.1:
	 9.1.4	 Prior	to	the	scheduled	time	for	the	toss,	the	artificial	drying	of	
the	pitch	and	outfield	shall	be	at	the	discretion	of	the	Ground	
Authority. Thereafter and throughout the match the drying of the 
outfield	may	be	undertaken	at	any	time	by	the	Ground	Authority,	
but the drying of the affected area of the pitch shall be carried 
out only on the instructions and under the supervision of the 
umpires. The umpires shall be empowered to have the pitch dried 
without reference to the captains at any time they are of the 
opinion	that	it	is	unfit	for	play.
 9.1.5 The umpires may instruct the Ground Authority to use any 
available equipment, including any roller for the purpose of 
drying	the	pitch	and	making	it	fit	for	play.
 9.1.6 An absorbent roller may be used to remove water from the 
covers including the cover on the match pitch.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.20 4.21 11.2 Duration of interval
 11.2.1  Except in circumstances provided for in clause 11.2.2 below. There 
shall be a 30 minute interval between innings, taken from the call 
of Time before the interval until the call of Play on resumption 
after the interval.
 11.2.2  Home Boards may adjust the length of the interval between 
innings to suit their own requirements, provided that the 
scheduled length of the interval in an uninterrupted match is  
a minimum of 30 minutes and a maximum of 45 minutes.
 11.3 Allowance for interval between innings
  Law 11.3 of the Laws of Cricket shall not apply.
 11.4 Changing agreed times of intervals
	 11.4.1	 If	the	innings	of	the	team	batting	first	is	completed	prior	to	the	
scheduled time for the interval, the interval shall take place 
immediately and the innings of the team batting second will 
commence interval.
  Note: The prescribed interval timings above may be reduced by 
the ICC Match Referee taking into account the intention of not 
having a prolonged interval after a lengthy interruption close to 
the	conclusion	of	the	innings	of	the	team	batting	first.	However,	
the minimum interval shall not be less than 10 minutes.
 11.5 Intervals for drinks
 11.5.1 Two drinks breaks per session shall be permitted, each 1 hour 10 
minutes apart. Under conditions of extreme heat the umpires 
may permit extra intervals for drinks. 
 11.5.2 An individual player may be given a drink either on the boundary 
edge	or	at	the	fall	of	a	wicket,	on	the	field,	provided	that	no 	
playing time is wasted. No other drinks shall be taken onto the 
field	without	the	permission	of	the	umpires.	Any	player	taking 	
drinks	onto	the	field	shall	be	dressed	in	proper	cricket	attire 	
(subject	to	the	wearing	of	bibs	–	refer	to	the	note	in	clause	24.1.4).
 11.6 Scorers to be informed
  The umpires shall ensure that the scorers are informed of all agreements 
about hours of play and intervals and of any changes made thereto as 
permitted under this clause.
 12 START OF PLAY; CESSATION OF PLAY
 12.1 Call of Play
	 	 The	bowler’s	end	umpire	shall	call	Play	before	the	first	ball	of	the	match	
and on the resumption of play after any interval or interruption.
 12.2 Call of Time
  The bowler’s end umpire shall call Time, when the ball is dead, at the 
end of any session of play or as required by these Playing Conditions. 
See also clause 20.3 (Call of Over or Time). 9.8.3 The preparation work shall be carried out under the supervision 
of the fourth umpire.
 9.8.4 The consent of the captains is not required but the umpires shall 
advise both captains and the ICC Match Referee before the start 
of the match on what has been agreed.
 10 COVERING THE PITCH
 10.1 Before the match
  The use of covers before the match is the responsibility of the Ground 
Authority and may include full covering if required.
  The pitch shall be entirely protected against rain up to the 
commencement of play.
  However, the Ground Authority shall grant suitable facility to the 
captains to inspect the pitch before the nomination of their players 
and to the umpires to discharge their duties as laid down in clauses 
2 (The umpires), 6 (The pitch), 7 (The creases), 8 (The wickets), and 9 
(Preparation and maintenance of the playing area).
 10.2 During the match
  The pitch shall be entirely protected against rain up to the 
commencement of play, and for the duration of the period of the match.
  The covers must totally protect the pitch and also the pitch surroundings, 
to a minimum of 5 metres either side of the pitch, and any worn or soft 
areas	in	the	outfield.
  The bowlers’ run-ups shall be covered during inclement weather,  
in order to keep them dry, to a distance of at least 10 x 10 metres.
 10.3 Removal of covers
  All covers (including “hessian” or “scrim” covers used to protect the pitch 
against the sun) shall be removed not later than 2 ½ hours before the 
scheduled start of play provided it is not raining at the time, but the pitch 
will be covered again if rain falls prior to the commencement of play.
 11 INTERVALS
 11.1 An interval
 11.1.1 The following shall be classed as intervals.
	 –		Intervals	between	innings.
	 –		Intervals	for	meals.
	 –		Intervals	for	drinks.
	 –		Any	other	agreed	interval.
 11.1.2 Only these intervals shall be considered as scheduled breaks for 
the purposes of clause 24.2.6.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.22 4.23 12.8.3 In calculating the actual over rate for the match, allowances will 
be given as follows:
 12.8.3.1 The time lost as a result of treatment given to a player 
by	an	authorised	medical	personnel	on	the	field	of	play;
 12.8.3.2 The time lost as a result of a player being required to 
leave	the	field	as	a	result	of	a	serious	injury;
 12.8.3.3 The time taken for all third umpire referrals and 
consultations and any umpire or player reviews;
 12.8.3.4 The time lost as a result of time wasting by the 
batting side; and
 12.8.3.5 The time lost due to all other circumstances that are 
beyond	the	control	of	the	fielding	side.
 12.8.4 In the event of any time allowances being granted to the 
fielding	team	under	clause	12.8.3.4	above	(time	wasting	by	
batting team), then such time shall be deducted from the 
allowances granted to such batting team in the determination 
of its over rate.
 12.8.5 If a batting team is bowled out within the time determined for 
that innings pursuant to these playing conditions (taking into 
account	all	of	the	time	allowances	set	out	above),	the	fielding	
side shall be deemed to have complied with the required 
minimum over rate.
	 12.8.6	 The	current	over	rate	of	the	fielding	team	(+/-	overs	compared	
to the minimum rate required), to be advised by the 3rd 
umpire every 30 minutes as a minimum, shall be displayed on a 
scoreboard or replay screen.
 13 INNINGS
 13.1 Number of innings
 13.1.1 A match shall be one innings for each side.
 13.2 Alternate innings
  Each side shall take their innings alternately.
 13.3 Completed innings
  A side’s innings is to be considered as completed if any of the  
following applies:
 13.3.1 the side is all out.
 13.3.2 at the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batsman, further 
balls remain to be bowled but no further batsman is available to 
come in.
 13.3.3 the prescribed number of overs have been bowled to the 
batting side. 12.3 Removal of bails
  After the call of Time, the bails shall be removed from both wickets.
 12.4 Starting a new over
  Another over shall always be started at any time during the match, 
unless an interval is to be taken in the circumstances set out in clause 
12.5.2, if the umpire, walking at normal pace, has arrived at the position 
behind the stumps at the bowler’s end before the time agreed for the 
next interval has been reached.
 12.5 Completion of an over
  Other than at the end of the match,
 12.5.1 if the agreed time for an interval is reached during an over, the 
over shall be completed before the interval is taken, except as 
provided for in clause 12.5.2.
 12.5.2 when less than 3 minutes remains before the time agreed for 
the next interval, the interval shall be taken immediately if
   either a batsman is dismissed or retires or
		 	 the	players	have	occasion	to	leave	the	field
  whether this occurs during an over or at the end of an over. 
Except at the end of an innings, if an over is thus interrupted it 
shall be completed on the resumption of play.
 12.6 Conclusion of match
 12.6.1 The match is concluded
	 12.6.1.1	 as	soon	as	a	result	as	defined	in	clauses	16.1	to	16.5	 
(The result) is reached.
 12.6.1.2 as soon as the prescribed number of overs have  
been completed.
 12.6.2 The match is concluded if, without a conclusion having been 
reached	under	12.6.1,	the	players	leave	the	field	for	adverse	
conditions of ground, weather or light, or in exceptional 
circumstances, and no further play is possible.
 12.7 Hours of Play; Minimum Overs Requirement
 12.7.1 To be determined by the Home Board subject to there being 
2 sessions of 3.5 hours each, separated by a 45 minute interval 
between innings. 
  Note: The playing hours of matches scheduled to take place at 
venues where dew is likely to be a factor should be determined 
so as to ensure that the effect of any dew is minimised.
 12.8 Minimum Over Rates
 12.8.1 The minimum over rate to be achieved in ODI Matches shall be 
14.28 overs per hour.
 12.8.2 The actual over rate shall be calculated at the end of each 
innings by the umpires.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.24 4.25	 13.7.1.4	 If	the	team	fielding	second	fails	to	bowl	50	overs	by	
the scheduled cessation time, the hours of play shall 
be extended until the required number of overs has 
been bowled or a result is achieved. 
 13.7.1.5 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates (refer to the 
ICC Code of Conduct).
 13.7.2 Delayed or Interrupted Matches 
 13.7.2.1 Delay or Interruption to the Innings of the Team 
Batting First (see paragraph 1 of Appendix E)
 13.7.2.1.1 When playing time has been lost the 
revised number of overs to be bowled in 
the match shall be based on a rate of 14.28 
overs per hour, which is inclusive of the 
provision of drinks intervals, in the total 
remaining time available for play.
 13.7.2.1.2 The revision of the number of overs should 
ensure, whenever possible, that both 
teams have the opportunity of batting 
for the same number of overs. The team 
batting second shall not bat for a greater 
number	of	overs	than	the	first	team	unless	
the latter completed its innings in less than 
its allocated overs. To constitute a match, a 
minimum of 20 overs have to be bowled to 
the side batting second, subject to a result 
not being achieved earlier.
 13.7.2.1.3 As soon as the total minutes of playing time 
remaining is less than the completed overs 
faced by Team 1 multiplied by 4.2, then the 
first	innings	is	terminated	and	the	provisions 	
of 13.7.2.2 below take effect.
	 13.7.2.1.4	 A	fixed	time	will	be	specified	for	the 	
commencement of the interval, and 
also the close of play for the match, by 
applying a rate of 14.28 overs per hour. 
When calculating the length of playing 
time available for the match, or the length 
of either innings, the timing and duration 
of all relative delays, extensions in playing 
hours, interruptions in play, and intervals, 
excluding those for drinks, will be taken 
into consideration. This calculation must not 
cause	the	match	to	finish	earlier	than	the 	
original or rescheduled time for cessation 
of	play	on	the	final	scheduled	day	for	play.	If 	
required the original time shall be extended 
to allow for one extra over for each team.  13.4 The toss
	 	 The	captains	shall	toss	a	coin	for	the	choice	of	innings,	on	the	field	of	
play and under the supervision of the ICC Match Referee, not earlier 
than 30 minutes, nor later than 15 minutes before the scheduled or any 
rescheduled time for the start of play. Note, however, the provisions of 
clause 1.3 (Captain).
	 13.5	 Decision	to	be	notified
  As soon as the toss is completed, the captain of the side winning the 
toss	shall	decide	whether	to	bat	or	to	field	and	shall	notify	the	opposing	
captain	and	the	umpires	of	this	decision.	Once	notified,	the	decision	
cannot be changed.
 13.6 Duration of Match
 13.6.1 All matches will consist of one innings per side, each innings 
being limited to a maximum of 50 overs. All matches shall be 
of one day’s scheduled duration provided that participating 
countries in a series may agree to provide for a reserve day on 
which an incomplete match may be replayed or continued from 
the scheduled day. 
 13.6.2 If the match is to be continued on the reserve day, every effort 
shall be made to complete the match on the scheduled day 
with any necessary reduction in overs taking place and only if 
the minimum number of overs necessary to constitute a match 
cannot be bowled on the scheduled day will the match be 
completed on the reserve day.
 13.6.3 If the match has started on the scheduled day and overs are 
subsequently reduced following an interruption, but no further 
play is possible, the match will resume on the reserve day 
under the same assumption that the last ball was played on the 
scheduled day. Refer to Appendix G. 
 13.7 Length of Innings
 13.7.1 Uninterrupted Matches.
 13.7.1.1 Each team shall bat for 50 overs unless all out earlier. 
	 13.7.1.2	 If	the	team	fielding	first	fails	to	bowl	the	required	
number of overs by the scheduled time for cessation 
of	the	first	innings,	play	shall	continue	until	the	
required number of overs has been bowled. The 
interval shall be reduced to enable the second innings 
to commence at the scheduled time, subject to there 
being a minimum interval of 30 minutes. The team 
batting second shall receive its full quota of 50 overs 
irrespective of the number of overs it bowled in the 
scheduled	time	for	the	cessation	of	the	first	innings.	
	 13.7.1.3	 If	the	team	batting	first	is	dismissed	in	less	than	50	
overs, the team batting second shall be entitled to 
bat for 50 overs. ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.26 4.27 13.8 Extra Time
  The participating countries may agree to provide for extra time where 
the start of play is delayed or play is suspended.
 13.9 Number of Overs per Bowler
 13.9.1 No bowler shall bowl more than 10 overs in an innings. 
 13.9.2 In a delayed or interrupted match where the overs are reduced 
for both teams or for the team bowling second, no bowler may 
bowl	more	than	one-fifth	of	the	total	overs	allowed.	
 13.9.3 Where the total overs is not divisible by 5, one additional over 
shall be allowed to the maximum number per bowler necessary 
to make up the balance. 
 13.9.4 In the event of a bowler breaking down and being unable to 
complete an over, the remaining balls will be allowed by another 
bowler. Such part of an over will count as a full over only in so far 
as each bowler’s limit is concerned. 
 13.9.5 The scoreboard shall show the total number of overs bowled 
and the number of overs bowled by each bowler. 
 14 THE FOLLOW-ON
 Shall not apply.
 15 DECLARATION AND FORFEITURE
 Shall not apply.
 16 THE RESULT
 16.1 A Win – one-innings match
 16.1.1 The side which has scored in its one innings a total of runs in 
excess of that scored by the opposing side in its one completed 
innings shall win the match. See clause 13.3 (Completed innings). 
Note also clause 16.5 (Winning hit or extras).
 16.1.2 Save for circumstances where a match is awarded to a team as 
a consequence of the opposing team’s refusal to play (clause 
16.2), a result can be achieved only if both teams have had the 
opportunity of batting for at least 20 overs, unless one team 
has been all out in less than 20 overs or unless the team batting 
second scores enough runs to win in less than 20 overs.
 16.1.3 Save for circumstances where a match is awarded to a team as a 
consequence of the opposing team’s refusal to play (clause 16.2), 
all matches in which both teams have not had an opportunity of 
batting for a minimum of 20 overs, shall be declared a No Result.
 16.2 ICC Match Referee awarding a match
 16.2.1 A match shall be lost by a side which either
 16.2.1.1 concedes defeat or
 16.2.1.2 in the opinion of the ICC Match Referee refuses to play 
and the ICC Match Referee shall award the match to 
the other side.	 13.7.2.1.5	 If	the	team	fielding	first	fails	to	bowl	the	
revised	number	of	overs	by	the	specified	
time, play shall continue until the required 
number of overs have been bowled or the 
innings is completed. 
 13.7.2.1.6 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates 
(refer to the ICC Code of Conduct).
 13.7.2.2 Delay or Interruption to the innings of the Team 
Batting Second (see paragraph 2 of Appendix E)
 13.7.2.2.1 When playing time has been lost and, as 
a result, it is not possible for the team 
batting second to have the opportunity of 
receiving its allocated, or revised allocation 
of overs in the playing time available, the 
number of overs shall be reduced at a rate 
of 14.28 overs per hour, which is inclusive 
of the provision of drinks intervals, in 
respect of the lost playing time. Should the 
calculations result in a fraction of an over 
the fraction shall be ignored. 
 13.7.2.2.2 In addition, should the innings of the team 
batting	first	have	been	completed	prior	to	
the scheduled, or re-scheduled time for 
the commencement of the interval, then 
any calculation relating to the revision of 
overs shall not be effective until an amount 
of time equivalent to that by which the 
second innings started early has elapsed. 
 13.7.2.2.3 To constitute a match, a minimum of 20 
overs have to be bowled to the team 
batting second subject to a result not being 
achieved earlier.
 13.7.2.2.4 The team batting second shall not bat for a 
greater	number	of	overs	than	the	first	team	
unless the latter completed its innings in 
less than its allocated overs. 
	 13.7.2.2.5	 A	fixed	time	will	be	specified	for	the	close	
of play by applying a rate of 14.28 overs 
per hour. With the exception of drinks 
intervals, the timing and duration of all 
relative delays, extensions in playing hours 
and interruptions in play, will be taken into 
consideration in specifying this time. 
	 13.7.2.2.6	 If	the	team	fielding	second	fails	to	bowl	
the revised overs by the scheduled or 
re-scheduled close of play, the hours of 
play shall be extended until the overs have 
been bowled or a result achieved.
 13.7.2.2.7 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates 
(refer to the ICC Code of Conduct).ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.28 4.29 16.4.2 Prematurely Terminated Matches
 16.4.2.1 If the innings of the side batting second is suspended 
(with at least 20 overs bowled) and it is not possible 
for the match to be resumed, the match will be 
decided	by	comparison	with	the	DLS	‘Par	Score’	
determined at the instant of the suspension by the 
Duckworth/Lewis/Stern method (refer Duckworth/
Lewis/Stern Regulations). If the score is equal to the 
par score, the match is a Tie. Otherwise the result is a 
victory, or defeat, by the margin of runs by which the 
score exceeds, or falls short of, the Par Score.
 16.5 Winning hit or extras
	 16.5.1	 As	soon	as	a	result	is	reached	as	defined	in	clauses	16.1,	16.2	or	
16.3.1, the match is at an end. Nothing that happens thereafter, 
except as in clause 41.18.2 (Penalty runs), shall be regarded as 
part of it. Note also clause 16.8.
 16.5.2 The side batting last will have scored enough runs to win 
only	if	its	total	of	runs	is	sufficient	without	including	any	runs	
completed by the batsmen before the completion of a catch,  
or the obstruction of a catch, from which the striker could  
be dismissed.
 16.5.3 If a boundary is scored before the batsmen have completed 
sufficient	runs	to	win	the	match,	the	whole	of	the	boundary	
allowance shall be credited to the side’s total and, in the case of 
a hit by the bat, to the striker’s score.
 16.6 Statement of result
  If the side batting last wins the match without losing all its wickets, the 
result shall be stated as a win by the number of wickets still then to fall.
  If, without having scored a total of runs in excess of the total scored 
by the opposing side, the innings of the side batting last has been 
completed, but as the result of an award of 5 Penalty runs its total of 
runs	is	then	sufficient	to	win,	the	result	shall	be	stated	as	a	win	to	that	
side by Penalty runs.
	 	 If	the	side	fielding	last	wins	the	match,	the	result	shall	be	stated	as	a	win	
by runs.
  If the match is decided by one side conceding defeat or refusing to play, 
the result shall be stated as Match Conceded or Match Awarded, as the 
case may be.
 16.7 Correctness of result
  Any decision as to the correctness of the scores shall be the 
responsibility of the umpires. See clause 2.15 (Correctness of scores).
 16.8 Mistakes in scoring
	 	 If,	after	the	players	and	umpires	have	left	the	field	in	the	belief	that	
the match has been concluded, the umpires discover that a mistake in 
scoring has occurred which affects the result then, subject to clause 16.9, 
they shall adopt the following procedure. 16.2.2 If an umpire considers that an action by any player or players 
might constitute a refusal by either side to play then the 
umpires together shall inform the ICC Match Referee of this 
fact. The ICC Match Referee shall together with the umpires 
ascertain the cause of the action. If the ICC Match Referee, 
after due consultation with the umpires, then decides that this 
action does constitute a refusal to play by one side, he/she 
shall so inform the captain of that side. If the captain persists 
in the action the ICC Match Referee shall award the match in 
accordance with clause 16.2.1.2 above.
 16.2.3 If action as in clause 16.2.2 above takes place after play has 
started and does not constitute a refusal to play the delay or 
interruption in play shall be dealt with in the same manner as 
provided for in clauses 13.7.2 (Delayed and Interrupted Matches) 
and 11.4 (Changing agreed times for intervals) above.
  Note: In addition to the consequences of any refusal to 
play prescribed under this clause, any such refusal, whether 
temporary	or	final,	may	result	in	disciplinary	action	being	taken	
against the captain and team responsible under the ICC Code  
of Conduct.
 16.3 All other matches – A Tie or No Result
 16.3.1 A Tie
  The result of a match shall be a Tie when all innings have been 
completed and the scores are equal.
  If the scores are equal, the result shall be a tie and no account 
shall be taken of the number of wickets that have fallen.
 16.3.2 No Result
  See 16.1.3 above.
 16.4 Prematurely Terminated Matches - Calculation of the Target Score
	 16.4.1	 Interrupted	Matches	–	Calculation	of	the	Target	Score
 16.4.1.1 If, due to suspension of play after the start of the 
match, the number of overs in the innings of either 
team has to be revised to a lesser number than 
originally allotted (minimum of 20 overs), then a 
revised target score (to win) should be set for the 
number of overs which the team batting second will 
have the opportunity of facing. This revised target is 
to be calculated using the current Duckworth/Lewis/
Stern method. The target set will always be a whole 
number and one run less will constitute a Tie (refer to 
the Duckworth/Lewis/Stern Regulations).ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.30 4.31 16.10.2 Net Run Rate 
  A team’s net run rate is calculated by deducting from the 
average runs per over scored by that team throughout the 
competition, the average runs per over scored against that 
team throughout the competition. 
  In the event of a team being all out in less than its full quota of 
overs, the calculation of its net run rate shall be based on the 
full quota of overs to which it would have been entitled and not 
on the number of overs in which the team was dismissed. 
  Only those matches where results are achieved will count for 
the purpose of net run rate calculations. Where a match is 
abandoned, but a result is achieved under Duckworth/Lewis/
Stern, for net run rate purposes Team 1 will be credited with 
Team 2’s Par Score on abandonment off the same number 
of overs faced by Team 2.Where a match is concluded with 
Duckworth/Lewis/Stern having been applied at an earlier point 
in the match, Team 1 will be credited with 1 run less than the 
final	Target	Score	for	Team	2	off	the	total	number	of	overs	
allocated to Team 2 to reach the target. 
 16.10.3 Bonus Points 
  The team that achieves a run rate of 1.25 times that of the 
opposition shall be awarded one bonus point. A team’s run rate 
will be calculated by reference to the runs scored in an innings 
divided by the number of overs faced. Refer to Appendix F.
 17 THE OVER
 17.1 Number of balls
  The ball shall be bowled from each end alternately in overs of 6 balls.
 17.2 Start of an over
  An over has started when the bowler starts his run-up or, if there is no 
run-up,	starts	his	action	for	the	first	delivery	of	that	over.
 17.3 Validity of balls
 17.3.1 A ball shall not count as one of the 6 balls of the over unless it 
is delivered, even though, as in clause 41.16 (Non-striker leaving 
his ground early) a batsman may be dismissed or some other 
incident occurs without the ball having been delivered.
 17.3.2 A ball delivered by the bowler shall not count as one of the  
6 balls of the over:
 17.3.2.1 if it is called dead, or is to be considered dead, before 
the striker has had an opportunity to play it. See 
clause 20.6 (Dead ball; ball counting as one of over).
 17.3.2.2 if it is called dead in the circumstances of clause 
20.4.2.6. Note also the special provisions of clause 
20.4.2.5 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball)
 17.3.2.3 if it is a No ball. See clause 21 (No ball).
 17.3.2.4 if it is a Wide. See clause 22 (Wide ball).	 16.8.1	 If,	when	the	players	leave	the	field,	the	side	batting	last	has	not	
completed its innings and
  either the number of overs to be bowled in that innings has not 
been completed, or
  the end of the innings has not been reached,
  then, unless one side concedes defeat, the umpires shall order 
play to resume.
  Unless a result is reached sooner, play will then continue, if 
conditions permit, until the prescribed number of overs has 
been completed. The number of overs shall be taken as they 
were at the call of Time for the supposed conclusion of the 
match. No account shall be taken of the time between that 
moment and the resumption of play.
 16.8.2 If, at this call of Time, the overs have been completed and no 
Playing time remains, or if the side batting last has completed 
its innings, the umpires shall immediately inform both captains 
of the necessary corrections to the scores and to the result.
 16.9 Result not to be changed
  Once the umpires have agreed with the scorers the correctness of the 
scores	at	the	conclusion	of	the	match	–	see	clauses	2.15	(Correctness	  
of	scores)	and	3.2	(Correctness	of	scores)	–	the	result	cannot	thereafter	
be changed.
 16.10 Points 
 16.10.1 Preliminary Matches 
  In a competition with three or four Members with ODI status 
and	with	a	final	match	or	series,	the	home	Board	will	institute	a	
points system as follows:
  Win 2 
  Tie, No Result or Abandoned 1 
  Loss 0
	 	 In	the	event	of	teams	finishing	on	equal	points,	the	right	to	play	
in	the	final	match	or	series	will	be	determined	as	follows:
	 –	The	team	with	the	most	number	of	wins
	 –	If	still	equal,	the	team	with	the	most	number	of	wins	over	the	
other team(s) who are equal on points and have the same 
number of wins 
	 –	 If	still	equal,	the	team	with	the	highest	number	of	bonus	points
	 –	If	still	equal,	the	team	with	the	highest	net	run	rate	
  In a match declared as a No Result, run rate is not applicable. ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.32 4.33 18 SCORING RUNS
 18.1 A run
  The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored:
 18.1.1 so often as the batsmen, at any time while the ball is in play, 
have crossed and made good their ground from end to end.
 18.1.2 when a boundary is scored. See clause 19 (Boundaries).
 18.1.3 when Penalty runs are awarded. See clause 18.6.
 18.2 Runs disallowed
  Wherever in these Playing Conditions provision is made for the scoring 
of runs or awarding of penalties, such runs and penalties will be subject 
to any provisions that may be applicable for the disallowance of runs or 
for the non-award of penalties.
  When runs are disallowed, the one run penalty for No ball or Wide shall 
stand and 5 run penalties shall be allowed, except for Penalty runs under 
clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 18.3 Short runs
 18.3.1 A run is short if a batsman fails to make good his ground in 
turning for a further run.
 18.3.2 Although a short run shortens the succeeding one, the latter if 
completed shall not be regarded as short. A striker setting off 
for	the	first	run	from	in	front	of	the	popping	crease	may	do	so	
also without penalty.
 18.4 Unintentional short runs
  Except in the circumstances of clause 18.5,
 18.4.1 if either batsman runs a short run, the umpire concerned shall, 
unless a boundary is scored, call and signal Short run as soon as 
the ball becomes dead and that run shall not be scored.
 18.4.2 if, after either or both batsmen run short, a boundary is scored 
the umpire concerned shall disregard the short running and shall 
not call or signal Short run.
 18.4.3 if both batsmen run short in one and the same run, this shall be 
regarded as only one short run.
 18.4.4 if more than one run is short then, subject to clauses 18.4.2 and 
18.4.3, all runs called as short shall not be scored.
 18.4.5 if there has been more than one short run, the umpire shall 
inform the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded.
 18.5 Deliberate short runs
 18.5.1 If either umpire considers that one or both batsmen deliberately 
ran short at that umpire’s end, the umpire concerned shall, 
when the ball is dead, call and signal Short run and inform the 
other umpire of what has occurred and apply clause 18.5.2. 17.3.2.5 when any of clauses 24.4 (Player returning without 
permission), 28.2 (Fielding the ball), 41.4 (Deliberate 
attempt to distract striker), or 41.5 (Deliberate 
distraction, deception or obstruction of batsman)  
is applied.
 17.3.3 Any deliveries other than those listed in clauses 17.3.1 and 17.3.2 
shall be known as valid balls. Only valid balls shall count towards 
the 6 balls of the over.
 17.4 Call of Over
  When 6 valid balls have been bowled and when the ball becomes dead, 
the umpire shall call Over before leaving the wicket. See also clause 20.3 
(Call of Over or Time).
 17.5 Umpire miscounting
 17.5.1 If the umpire miscounts the number of valid balls, the over as 
counted by the umpire shall stand.
 17.5.2 If, having miscounted, the umpire allows an over to continue 
after 6 valid balls have been bowled, he/she may subsequently 
call Over when the ball becomes dead after any delivery, even if 
that delivery is not a valid ball.
 17.5.3 Whenever possible, the third umpire shall liaise with the  
scorers	and	if	possible	inform	the	on-field	umpires	if	the	over	
has been miscounted.
 17.6 Bowler changing ends
  A bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as desired, provided 
he does not bowl two overs consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of 
two consecutive overs, in the same innings.
 17.7 Finishing an over
	 17.7.1	 Other	than	at	the	end	of	an	innings,	a	bowler	shall	finish	an	over	
in progress unless incapacitated or suspended under these 
Playing Conditions.
 17.7.2 If for any reason, other than the end of an innings, an over is left 
uncompleted at the start of an interval or interruption, it shall 
be completed on resumption of play.
 17.8 Bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over
  If for any reason a bowler is incapacitated while running up to deliver 
the	first	ball	of	an	over,	or	is	incapacitated	or	suspended	during	an	over,	
the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball. Another bowler shall complete 
the over from the same end, provided that he does not bowl two overs 
consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of two consecutive overs,  
in that innings.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.34 4.35 18.10 Crediting of runs scored
  Unless stated otherwise in these Playing Conditions,
 18.10.1 if the ball is struck by the bat, all runs scored by the batting side 
shall be credited to the striker, except for the following:
	 –		an	award	of	5	Penalty	runs,	which	shall	be	scored	as	Penalty	runs
	 –		the	one	run	penalty	for	a	No	ball,	which	shall	be	scored	as	a	
No ball extra
 18.10.2 if the ball is not struck by the bat, runs shall be scored as Penalty 
runs, Byes, Leg byes, No ball extras or Wides as the case may 
be. If Byes or Leg byes accrue from a No ball, only the one run 
penalty for No ball shall be scored as such, and the remainder as 
Byes or Leg byes as appropriate.
 18.10.3 the bowler shall be debited with:
	 –		all	runs	scored	by	the	striker
	 –		all	runs	scored	as	No	ball	extras
	 –		all	runs	scored	as	Wides
 18.11 Batsman returning to original end
 18.11.1 When the striker is dismissed in any of the circumstances in 
clauses 18.11.1.1 to 18.11.1.5, the not out batsman shall return to his 
original end.
 18.11.1.1 Bowled.
 18.11.1.2 Stumped.
 18.11.1.3 Hit the ball twice.
 18.11.1.4 LBW.
 18.11.1.5 Hit wicket.
 18.11.2 The batsmen shall return to their original ends in any of the 
cases of clauses 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3.
 18.11.2.1 A boundary is scored.
 18.11.2.2 Runs are disallowed for any reason.
 18.11.2.3 A decision by the batsmen at the wicket to do so, 
under clause 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception or 
obstruction of batsman).
 18.12 Batsman returning to wicket he has left
 18.12.1 When a batsman is dismissed in any of the ways in clauses 18.12.1.1 
to 18.12.1.3, the not out batsman shall return to the wicket he has 
left but only if the batsmen had not already crossed at the instant 
of the incident causing the dismissal. If runs are to be disallowed, 
however, the not out batsman shall return to his original end.
 18.12.1.1 Caught
	 18.12.1.2	 Obstructing	the	field
 18.12.1.3 Run out 18.5.2 The bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side
	 –		return	any	not	out	batsman	to	his	original	end
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	to	the	scorers,	if	applicable
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side
	 –		award	any	other	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side)
	 –		inform	the	scorers	as	to	the	number	of	runs	to	be	recorded,	and
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	practicable, 	
the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action.
 18.6 Runs awarded for penalties
  Runs shall be awarded for penalties under clauses 18.5 (Deliberate 
short runs), 21 (No ball), 22 (Wide ball), 24.4 (Player returning without 
permission), 26.4 (Penalties for contravention), 28.2 (Fielding the ball), 
28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side)	41	(Unfair	play) 	
and 42 (Players’ conduct). Note, however, the restrictions on the award of 
Penalty runs in clauses 23.3 (Leg byes not to be awarded), 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side)	and	34	(Hit	the	ball	twice).
 18.7 Runs scored for boundaries
  Runs shall be scored for boundary allowances under clause 19 (Boundaries).
 18.8 Runs scored when a batsman is dismissed
  When a batsman is dismissed, any runs for penalties awarded to either 
side shall stand.
  No other runs shall be credited to the batting side, except as follows.
	 18.8.1	 If	a	batsman	is	dismissed	Obstructing	the	field,	the	batting	side	
shall also score any runs completed before the offence.
  If, however, the obstruction prevented a catch being made, no 
runs other than penalties shall be scored.
 18.8.2 If a batsman is dismissed Run out, the batting side shall also 
score any runs completed before the wicket was put down.
 18.9 Runs scored when the ball becomes dead other than at the fall of a wicket
  When the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the fall of a 
wicket,	or	is	called	dead	by	an	umpire,	unless	there	is	specific	provision	
otherwise in these Playing Conditions, any runs for penalties awarded to 
either side shall be scored. Note however the provisions of clauses 23.3 
(Leg byes not to be awarded) and 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to 
the	fielding	side).
  Additionally the batting side shall be credited with all runs completed 
by the batsmen before the incident or call of Dead ball and the run in 
progress if the batsmen had already crossed at the instant of the incident 
or	call	of	Dead	ball.	Note	specifically,	however,	the	provisions	of	clause 	
41.5.8 (Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batsman).ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.36 4.37 19.3 Restoring the boundary
  If a solid object used to mark the boundary is disturbed for any reason, then:
 19.3.1 the boundary shall be considered to be in its original position.
 19.3.2 the object shall be returned to its original position as soon as 
is practicable; if play is taking place, this shall be as soon as the 
ball is dead.
	 19.3.3	 if	some	part	of	a	fence	or	other	marker	has	come	within	the	field	
of	play,	that	part	shall	be	removed	from	the	field	of	play	as	soon	
as is practicable; if play is taking place, this shall be as soon as 
the ball is dead.
 19.4 Ball grounded beyond the boundary
 19.4.1 The ball in play is grounded beyond the boundary if it touches
	 –		the	boundary	or	any	part	of	an	object	used	to	mark	 
the boundary;
	 –		the	ground	beyond	the	boundary;
	 –		any	object	that	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary.
 19.4.2 The ball in play is to be regarded as being grounded beyond the 
boundary if
	 –		a	fielder,	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	as	in	clause	19.5,	
touches the ball;
	 –		a	fielder,	after	catching	the	ball	within	the	boundary,	
becomes grounded beyond the boundary while in contact 
with the ball, before completing the catch.
 19.5 Fielder grounded beyond the boundary
	 19.5.1	 A	fielder	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	if	some	part	of	his	
person is in contact with any of the following:
	 –		the	boundary	or	any	part	of	an	object	used	to	mark	 
the boundary;
	 –		the	ground	beyond	the	boundary;
	 –		any	object	that	is	in	contact	with	the	ground	beyond	 
the boundary;
	 –		another	fielder	who	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary.
	 19.5.2	 A	fielder	who	is	not	in	contact	with	the	ground	is	considered	to	
be	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	if	his	final	contact	with	the	
ground,	before	his	first	contact	with	the	ball	after	it	has	been	
delivered by the bowler, was not entirely within the boundary.
 19.6 Boundary allowances
 19.6.1 6 runs shall be allowed for a boundary 6; and 4 runs for a 
boundary 4. See also clause 19.7. 18.12.2 If, while a run is in progress, the ball becomes dead for any 
reason other than the dismissal of a batsman, the batsmen 
shall return to the wickets they had left, but only if they had 
not already crossed in running when the ball became dead. If, 
however, any of the circumstances of clauses 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3 
apply, the batsmen shall return to their original ends.
 19 BOUNDARIES
	 19.1	 Determining	the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play
 19.1.1 Before the toss, the umpires shall determine the boundary of 
the	field	of	play,	which	shall	be	fixed	for	the	duration	of	the	
match. See clause 2.3.4 (Consultation with Home Board).
 19.1.2 The boundary shall be determined such that no part of any sight-
screen,	will,	at	any	stage	of	the	match,	be	within	the	field	of	play.
 19.1.3 The aim shall be to maximize the size of the playing area at each 
venue. With respect to the size of the boundaries, no boundary 
shall be longer than 90 yards (82.29 meters), and no boundary 
should be shorter than 65 yards (59.43 metres) from the centre 
of the pitch to be used.
 19.1.4  At all times, there must be 3 yards (2.74 meters) from the 
boundary	rope	to	the	first	solid	object	(advertising	boards/LEDs,	
photographers, cameramen, dug outs, covers, perimeter fence) 
for the player’s safety run off.
 19.1.5  If the boundary is positioned less than 90 yards (82.29 meters) 
from the centre of the pitch, the boundary rope cannot be 
set at a distance of more than 10 yards (9.14 meters) from the 
perimeter fence. The 10 yards shall be inclusive of the 3 yards 
(2.74 meters) provided for the player’s safety run off.
 19.1.6 Any ground which has previously been approved to host 
international cricket which is unable to conform to the minimum 
boundary dimension shall be exempt. In such cases the boundary 
shall be positioned so as to maximize the size of the playing area.
 19.2 Identifying and marking the boundary
 19.2.1 All boundaries must be designated by a rope, or similar object of 
a minimum standard as authorised by the ICC from time to time. 
 19.2.2 If the boundary is marked by means of an object that is in 
contact with the ground the boundary will be the edge of the 
grounded part of the object which is nearest the pitch.
	 19.2.3	 An	obstacle	within	the	field	of	play	shall	not	be	regarded	as	a	
boundary unless so determined by the umpires before the toss. 
See clause 2.3.4 (Consultation with Home Board).
 19.2.4 If an unauthorized person enters the playing arena and handles 
the ball, the umpire at the bowler’s end shall be the sole judge of 
whether the boundary allowance should be scored or the ball be 
treated as still in play or called dead ball if a batsman is liable to 
be out as a result of the unauthorized person handling the ball.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.38 4.39 20.1.1.4 whether played or not it becomes trapped between 
the bat and person of a batsman or between items of 
his clothing or equipment.
 20.1.1.5 whether played or not it lodges in the clothing or 
equipment of a batsman or the clothing of an umpire.
 20.1.1.6 there is an award of Penalty runs under either of 
clauses 24.4 (Player returning without permission) or 
28.3 (Fielding the ball). The ball shall not count as one 
of the over.
 20.1.1.7 there is a contravention of clause 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 20.1.1.8 the match is concluded in any of the ways stated in 
clause 12.6 (Conclusion of match).
 20.1.2 The ball shall be considered to be dead when it is clear to the 
bowler’s	end	umpire	that	the	fielding	side	and	both	batsmen	at	
the wicket have ceased to regard it as in play.
	 20.1.3	 In	a	match	where	cameras	are	being	used	on	or	over	the	field	
of play (e.g. Spidercam), should a ball that has been hit by the 
batsman make contact, while still in play, with the camera, its 
apparatus	or	its	cable,	either	umpire	shall	call	and	signal	‘dead	
ball’. The ball shall not count as one of the over and no runs shall 
be scored. If the delivery was called a No ball it shall count and 
the No ball penalty shall be applied. No other runs (including 
penalty runs) apart from the No ball penalty shall be scored.
	 20.1.4	 Should	a	ball	thrown	by	a	fielder	make	contact	with	a	camera	on	
or	over	the	field	of	play,	its	apparatus	or	its	cable,	either	umpire	
shall call and signal dead ball. Unless this was already a No ball 
or Wide, the ball shall count as one of the over. All runs scored 
to that point shall count, plus the run in progress if the batsmen 
have already crossed.
 20.1.5 Refer also to paragraph 2.6 of Appendix D.
	 20.2	 Ball	finally	settled
	 	 Whether	the	ball	is	finally	settled	or	not	is	a	matter	for	the	umpire	alone	
to decide.
 20.3 Call of Over or Time
  Neither the call of Over (see clause 17.4), nor the call of Time (see clause 
12.2) is to be made until the ball is dead, either under clauses 20.1 or 20.4.
 20.4 Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball
 20.4.1 When the ball has become dead under clause 20.1, the bowler’s 
end umpire may call and signal Dead ball if it is necessary to 
inform the players.
 20.4.2 Either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball when
 20.4.2.1 intervening in a case of unfair play.
 20.4.2.2 a possibly serious injury to a player or umpire occurs.
 20.4.2.3 leaving his/her normal position for consultation. 19.7 Runs scored from boundaries
 19.7.1 A boundary 6 will be scored if and only if the ball has been struck 
by	the	bat	and	is	first	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	without 	
having	been	in	contact	with	the	ground	within	the	field	of	play. 	
This	shall	apply	even	if	the	ball	has	previously	touched	a	fielder.
 19.7.2 A boundary 4 will be scored when a ball that is grounded 
beyond the boundary:
	 –		whether	struck	by	the	bat	or	not,	was	first	grounded	within	
the boundary, or
	 –		has	not	been	struck	by	the	bat.
 19.7.3 When a boundary is scored, the batting side, except in the 
circumstances of clause 19.8, shall be awarded whichever is the 
greater of:
 19.7.3.1 the allowance for the boundary
 19.7.3.2 the runs completed by the batsmen together with 
the run in progress if they had already crossed at the 
instant the boundary is scored.
 19.7.4 When the runs in clause 19.7.3.2 exceed the boundary allowance 
they shall replace the boundary allowance for the purposes of 
clause 18.12.2.
 19.7.5 The scoring of Penalty runs by either side is not affected by the 
scoring of a boundary.
	 19.8	 Overthrow	or	wilful	act	of	fielder
  If the boundary results from an overthrow or from the wilful act of a 
fielder,	the	runs	scored	shall	be
  any runs for penalties awarded to either side
  and the allowance for the boundary
  and the runs completed by the batsmen, together with the run in 
progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the throw or act.
  Clause 18.12.2 (Batsman returning to wicket he has left) shall apply as 
from the instant of the throw or act.
 20 DEAD BALL
 20.1 Ball is dead
 20.1.1 The ball becomes dead when
	 20.1.1.1	 it	is	finally	settled	in	the	hands	of	the	wicket-keeper	
or of the bowler.
 20.1.1.2 a boundary is scored. See clause 19.7 (Runs scored 
from boundaries).
 20.1.1.3 a batsman is dismissed. The ball will be deemed  
to be dead from the instant of the incident causing 
the dismissal.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.40 4.41 21 NO BALL
 21.1 Mode of delivery
 21.1.1 The umpire shall ascertain whether the bowler intends to bowl 
right handed or left handed, over or round the wicket, and shall 
so inform the striker.
  It is unfair if the bowler fails to notify the umpire of a change in 
his mode of delivery. In this case the umpire shall call and signal 
No ball.
 21.1.2 Underarm bowling shall not be permitted.
 21.2 Fair delivery – the arm
  For a delivery to be fair in respect of the arm the ball must not be 
delivered with an Illegal Bowling Action.
	 	 An	Illegal	Bowling	Action	is	defined	as	a	bowling	action	where	a	
bowler’s Elbow Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured from the point 
at which the bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the point at which 
the ball is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for 
the purposes of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).
  Should either umpire or the ICC Match Referee suspect that a bowler 
has used an Illegal Bowling Action, they shall complete the ICC Bowling 
Action Report Form at the conclusion of the match, as set out in the 
Illegal Bowling Regulations.
 21.3 Ball thrown or delivered underarm – action by umpires
 21.3.1 If, in the opinion of either umpire, the ball has been thrown 
(where such mode of delivery does not correspond to the 
bowler’s normal bowling action) or delivered underarm, he/she 
shall call and signal No ball and, when the ball is dead, inform 
the other umpire of the reason for the call.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		warn	the	bowler,	indicating	that	this	is	a	first	and	final	
warning. This warning shall apply to that bowler throughout 
the innings.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen	at	the	wicket	of	what	has	occurred.
 21.3.2  If either umpire considers that, in that innings, a further delivery 
by the same bowler is thrown (where such mode of delivery 
does not correspond to the bowler’s normal bowling action) or 
delivered underarm, he/she shall call and signal No ball and when 
the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the reason for the call.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	
immediately from bowling. The over shall, if applicable, be 
completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled 
the previous over or part thereof nor be allowed to bowl any 
part of the next over. The bowler thus suspended shall not 
bowl again in that innings. 20.4.2.4 one or both bails fall from the striker’s wicket before 
the striker has had the opportunity of playing the ball.
 20.4.2.5 the striker is not ready for the delivery of the ball and, 
if the ball is delivered, makes no attempt to play it. 
Provided	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	the	striker	had	
adequate reason for not being ready, the ball shall not 
count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.6 the striker is distracted by any noise or movement 
or in any other way while preparing to receive, or 
receiving a delivery. This shall apply whether the 
source of the distraction is within the match or 
outside it. Note also clause 20.4.2.7. The ball shall not 
count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.7 there is an instance of a deliberate attempt to distract 
under either of clauses 41.4 (Deliberate attempt 
to distract striker) or 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, 
deception or obstruction of batsman). The ball shall 
not count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.8 the bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery.
 20.4.2.9 the ball does not leave the bowler’s hand for 
any reason other than an attempt to run out the 
non-striker under clause 41.16 (Non-striker leaving his 
ground early).
	 20.4.2.10	 satisfied	that	the	ball	in	play	cannot	be	recovered.
 20.4.2.11 required to do so under any of the Playing Conditions 
not included above.
 20.5 Ball ceases to be dead
	 	 The	ball	ceases	to	be	dead	–	that	is,	it	comes	into	play	–	when	the	bowler 	
starts his run-up or, if there is no run-up, starts his bowling action.
 20.6 Dead ball; ball counting as one of over
 20.6.1 When a ball which has been delivered is called dead or is to be 
considered dead then, other than as in clause 20.6.2,
 20.6.1.1 it will not count in the over if the striker has not had 
an opportunity to play it.
 20.6.1.2 Unless No ball or Wide ball has been called, it will be 
a valid ball if the striker has had an opportunity to 
play it, except in the circumstances of clauses 20.4.2.6 
and 24.4 ( Player returning without permission), 28.2 
(Fielding the ball), 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract 
striker) and 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception or 
obstruction of batsman).
 20.6.2 In clause 20.4.2.5, the ball will not count in the over only if both 
conditions of not attempting to play the ball and having an 
adequate reason for not being ready are met. Otherwise the 
delivery will be a valid ball.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.42 4.43 21.8 Ball coming to rest in front of striker’s wicket
  If a ball delivered by the bowler comes to rest in front of the line of the 
striker’s wicket, without having previously touched the bat or person of 
the striker, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and immediately call 
and signal Dead ball.
 21.9 Fielder intercepting a delivery
  If except in the circumstances of clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper) 
a	ball,	delivered	by	the	bowler,	makes	contact	with	any	part	of	a	fielder’s	
person before it either makes contact with the striker’s bat or person, or 
it passes the striker’s wicket, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and 
immediately call and signal Dead ball.
 21.10 Ball bouncing over head height of striker
  See clauses 22.1.1.2 and 41.6.1.7.
 21.11 Call of No ball for infringement of other clauses
  In addition to the instances above, No ball is to be called and signalled as 
required by the following:
	 	 Clause	27.3	–	Position	of	wicket-keeper	
	 	 Clause	28.4	–	Limitation	of	on	side	fielders
	 	 Clause	28.5	–	Fielders	not	to	encroach	on	pitch
	 	 Clause	41.6	–	Bowling	of	dangerous	and	unfair	short	pitched	deliveries
	 	 Clause	41.7	–	Bowling	of	dangerous	and	unfair	non-pitching	deliveries
	 	 Clause	41.8	–	Bowling	of	deliberate	front	foot	No	ball
 21.12 Revoking a call of No ball
  An umpire shall revoke the call of No ball if Dead ball is called under any 
of clauses 20.4.2.4 to 20.4.2.9 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball). 
However, if a no ball is called in breach of clause 20.4.2.7 (41.4 - Deliberate 
attempt	to	distract	striker	before	playing	the	ball	or	41.5	–	Deliberate	
attempt of Distraction, Deception or Obstruction of striker after the 
stroke) the No ball will stand.
 21.13 No ball to over-ride Wide
  A call of No ball shall over-ride the call of Wide ball at any time. See 
clauses 22.1 (Judging a Wide) and 22.2 (Call and signal of Wide ball).
 21.14 Ball not dead
  The ball does not become dead on the call of No ball.
 21.15 Penalty for a No ball
  A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of No ball. 
Unless the call is revoked, the penalty shall stand even if a batsman is 
dismissed. It shall be in addition to any other runs scored, any boundary 
allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.	 –		inform	the	batsmen	at	the	wicket	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	
the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action.
 21.3.3 The umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon  
as possible after the match to the ICC Match Referee, who  
shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the 
bowler concerned.
 21.4 Bowler throwing towards striker’s end before delivery
  If the bowler throws the ball towards the striker’s end before entering 
the delivery stride, either umpire shall call and signal No ball. See clause 
41.17 (Batsmen stealing a run).
	 	 However,	the	procedure	stated	in	clause	21.3	of	caution,	informing,	final	
warning, action against the bowler and reporting shall not apply.
 21.5 Fair delivery – the feet
  For a delivery to be fair in respect of the feet, in the delivery stride
 21.5.1 the bowler’s back foot must land within and not touching the 
return crease appertaining to his stated mode of delivery.
 21.5.2 the bowler’s front foot must land with some part of the foot, 
whether grounded or raised:
	 –		on	the	same	side	of	the	imaginary	line	joining	the	two	middle	
stumps as the return crease described in clause 21.5.1, and
	 –		behind	the	popping	crease.
	 	 If	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	is	satisfied	that	any	of	these	three	
conditions have not been met, he/she shall call and signal No 
ball. See clause 41.8 (Bowling of deliberate front foot No ball).
 21.6 Bowler breaking wicket in delivering ball
  Either umpire shall call and signal No ball if, other than in an attempt to 
run out the non-striker under clause 41.16, the bowler breaks the wicket 
at any time after the ball comes into play and before completion of the 
stride after the delivery stride. This shall include any clothing or other 
object that falls from his person and breaks the wicket.
 21.7 Ball bouncing more than once, rolling along the ground or pitching 
off the pitch
  The umpire shall call and signal No ball if a ball which he/she considers 
to have been delivered, without having previously touched bat or 
person of the striker,
	 –		bounces	more	than	once
	 –		or	rolls	along	the	ground	before	it	reaches	the	popping	crease
	 –		or	pitches	wholly	or	partially	off	the	pitch	as	defined	in	clause	6.1	
(Area of pitch) before it reaches the line of the striker’s wicket.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.44 4.45 22.1.2 The ball will be considered as passing wide of the striker unless 
it	is	sufficiently	within	reach	for	him	to	be	able	to	hit	it	with	the	
bat by means of a normal cricket stroke.
 22.1.3 Umpires are instructed to apply very strict and consistent 
interpretation in regard to this clause in order to prevent 
negative bowling wide of the wicket.
 22.2 Call and signal of Wide ball
  If the umpire adjudges a delivery to be a Wide he/she shall call and 
signal Wide ball as soon as the ball passes the striker’s wicket. It shall, 
however, be considered to have been a Wide from the instant that the 
bowler entered his delivery stride, even though it cannot be called Wide 
until it passes the striker’s wicket.
 22.3 Revoking a call of Wide ball
 22.3.1 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if there is then any 
contact between the ball and the striker’s bat or person before 
the	ball	comes	into	contact	with	any	fielder.
 22.3.2 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if a delivery is 
called a No ball. See clause 21.13 (No ball to over-ride Wide).
 22.4 Delivery not a Wide
 22.4.1 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide, if the 
striker, by moving, either causes the ball to pass wide of him, as 
defined	in	clause	22.1.2	or	brings	the	ball	sufficiently	within	reach	
to be able to hit it by means of a normal cricket stroke.
 22.4.2 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide if the 
ball touches the striker’s bat or person, but only as the ball 
passes the striker.
 22.5 Ball not dead
  The ball does not become dead on the call of Wide ball.
 22.6 Penalty for a Wide
  A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of Wide ball. 
Unless the call is revoked, see clause 22.3, this penalty shall stand even if 
a batsman is dismissed, and shall be in addition to any other runs scored, 
any boundary allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.
 22.7 Runs resulting from a Wide – how scored
  All runs completed by the batsmen or a boundary allowance, together 
with the penalty for the Wide, shall be scored as Wide balls. Apart from 
any award of 5 Penalty runs, all runs resulting from a Wide shall be 
debited against the bowler.
 22.8 Wide not to count
  A Wide shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of balls).
 22.9 Out from a Wide
  When Wide ball has been called, neither batsman shall be out under 
any of the Playing Conditions except clause 35 (Hit wicket), clause 37 
(Obstructing	the	field),	clause	38	(Run	out)	or	clause	39	(Stumped). 21.16 Runs resulting from a No ball – how scored
  The one run penalty shall be scored as a No ball extra and shall be 
debited against the bowler. If other Penalty runs have been awarded to 
either side these shall be scored as stated in clause 41.18 (Penalty runs). 
Any runs completed by the batsmen or any boundary allowance shall be 
credited to the striker if the ball has been struck by the bat; otherwise 
they shall also be scored as Byes or Leg byes as appropriate.
 21.17 No ball not to count
  A No ball shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of balls).
 21.18 Out from a No ball
  When No ball has been called, neither batsman shall be out under any 
of the Playing Conditions except clause 34 (Hit the ball twice), clause 37 
(Obstructing	the	field)	or	clause	38	(Run	out).
 21.19 Free Hit 
 21.19.1 In addition to the above, the delivery following a No ball called 
(all modes of No ball) shall be a free hit for whichever batsman is 
facing it. If the delivery for the free hit is not a legitimate delivery 
(any kind of No ball or a Wide ball) then the next delivery will 
become a free hit for whichever batsman is facing it. 
 21.19.2 For any free hit, the striker can be dismissed only under the 
circumstances that apply for a No ball, even if the delivery for 
the free hit is called Wide. 
	 21.19.3	 Neither	field	changes	nor	the	exchange	of	individuals	between	
fielding	positions	are	permitted	for	free	hit	deliveries	unless:
 21.19.3.1 There is a change of striker (the provisions of clause 
41.2 shall apply), or
	 21.19.3.2	 The	No	Ball	was	the	result	of	a	fielding	restriction	
breach,	in	which	case	the	field	may	be	changed	to	the	
extent of correcting the breach.
 21.19.4 For clarity, the bowler can change his mode of delivery for the 
free hit delivery. In such circumstances clause 21.1 shall apply.
 21.19.5 The umpires will signal a free hit by (after the normal No Ball 
signal) extending one arm straight upwards and moving it in a 
circular motion.
 22 WIDE BALL
 22.1 Judging a Wide
 22.1.1 If the bowler bowls a ball, not being a No ball, the umpire shall 
adjudge	it	a	Wide	if,	according	to	the	definition	in	clause	22.1.2:
 22.1.1.1 the ball passes wide of where the striker is standing 
and which also would have passed wide of the striker 
standing in a normal guard position.
 22.1.1.2 the ball passes above the head height of the striker 
standing upright at the popping crease.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.46 4.47 24 FIELDER’S ABSENCE; SUBSTITUTES
	 24.1	 Substitute	fielders
	 24.1.1	 The	umpires	shall	allow	a	substitute	fielder
	 24.1.1.1	 if	they	are	satisfied	that	a	fielder	has	been	injured	or	
become ill and that this occurred during the match, or
 24.1.1.2 for any other wholly acceptable reason.
  In all other circumstances, a substitute is not allowed.
 24.1.2 A substitute shall not bowl or act as captain but may act as 
wicket-keeper only with the consent of the umpires. Note, 
however, clause 42.4.1.
	 24.1.3	 A	nominated	player	may	bowl	or	field	even	though	a	substitute	
has previously acted for him, subject to 24.2 and 24.3.
	 24.1.4	 Squad	members	of	the	fielding	or	batting	team	who	are	not	
playing in the match and who are not acting as substitute 
fielders	shall	be	required	to	wear	a	team	training	bib	whilst	on	
the playing area (including the area between the boundary and 
the perimeter fencing).
	 24.2	 Fielder	absent	or	leaving	the	field	of	play
	 24.2.1	 A	player	going	briefly	outside	the	boundary	while	carrying	out	
any	duties	as	a	fielder	is	not	absent	from	the	field	of	play	nor,	for	
the purposes of this clause, is he to be regarded as having left 
the	field	of	play.
	 24.2.2	 If	a	fielder	fails	to	take	the	field	at	the	start	of	play	or	at	any	later	
time,	or	leaves	the	field	during	play,
 24.2.2.1 an umpire shall be informed of the reason for  
this absence.
	 24.2.2.2	 he	shall	not	thereafter	come	on	to	the	field	of	play	
during a session of play without the consent of the 
umpire. See clause 24.4. The umpire shall give such 
consent as soon as it is practicable.
	 24.2.3	 If	a	player	is	absent	from	the	field	for	longer	than	8	minutes,	the	
following restrictions shall apply to their future participation in 
the match:
 24.2.3.1 The player shall not be permitted to bowl in the match 
until	he	has	either	been	able	to	field,	or	his	team	has 	
subsequently been batting, for the total length of 
playing time for which the player was absent (hereafter 
referred to as Penalty time). A player’s unexpired 
Penalty time shall be limited to a maximum of 120 
minutes. If any unexpired Penalty time remains at the 
end of an innings, it is carried forward to the next and 
subsequent innings of the match. 23 BYE AND LEG BYE
 23.1 Byes
  If the ball, delivered by the bowler, not being a Wide, passes the striker 
without touching his bat or person, any runs completed by the batsmen 
from that delivery, or a boundary allowance, shall be credited as Byes 
to the batting side. Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run 
penalty for such a delivery shall be incurred.
 23.2 Leg byes
	 23.2.1	 If	a	ball	delivered	by	the	bowler	first	strikes	the	person	of	the	
striker,	runs	shall	be	scored	only	if	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	
the striker has:
  either attempted to play the ball with the bat
  or tried to avoid being hit by the ball.
	 23.2.2	 If	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	either	of	these	conditions	has	been	
met runs shall be scored as follows.
 23.2.2.1 If there is
  either no subsequent contact with the striker’s bat or 
person, or
  only inadvertent contact with the striker’s bat or person
  any runs completed by the batsmen or a boundary 
allowance shall be credited to the striker in the case 
of subsequent contact with his bat but otherwise to 
the batting side as in clause 23.2.3.
 23.2.2.2 If the striker wilfully makes a lawful second strike, 
clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once) and 
clause 34.4 (Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck 
more than once) shall apply.
 23.2.3 The runs in clause 23.2.2.1, unless credited to the striker, shall be 
scored as Leg byes.
  Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run penalty for 
the No ball shall be incurred.
 23.3 Leg byes not to be awarded
  If in the circumstance of clause 23.2.1 the umpire considers that neither of 
the conditions therein has been met, then Leg byes shall not be awarded.
  If the ball does not become dead for any other reason, the umpire shall 
call and signal Dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at 
the	completion	of	the	first	run.
  The umpire shall then:
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side;
	 –		return	any	not	out	batsman	to	his	original	end;
	 –		signal	No	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable;
	 –	 award	any	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	Penalty	runs	
under	clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.48 4.49 24.4 Player returning without permission
	 	 If	a	player	comes	on	to	the	field	of	play	in	contravention	of	clause	24.2.2	
and comes into contact with the ball while it is in play, the ball shall 
immediately become dead.
	 –		The	umpire	shall	award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 – 		Runs	completed	by	the	batsmen	shall	be	scored	together	with	the	run 	
in progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
	 –		The	ball	shall	not	count	as	one	of	the	over.
	 –		The	umpire	shall	inform	the	other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	
side, the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the 
batting side of the reason for this action.
 25 BATSMAN’S INNINGS
 25.1 Eligibility to act as a batsman
  Only a nominated player may bat and, subject to clause 25.3, may do so 
even	though	a	substitute	fielder	has	previously	acted	for	him.
 25.2 Commencement of a batsman’s innings
	 	 The	innings	of	the	first	two	batsmen,	and	that	of	any	new	batsman	on	
the resumption of play after a call of Time, shall commence at the call of 
Play. At any other time, a batsman’s innings shall be considered to have 
commenced	when	that	batsman	first	steps	onto	the	field	of	play.
 25.3 Restriction on batsman commencing an innings
 25.3.1 If a member of the batting side has unserved Penalty time, see clause 
24.2.7, that player shall not be permitted to bat until that Penalty 
time has been served. However, even if the unserved Penalty time 
has not expired, that player may bat after his side has lost 5 wickets.
 25.3.2 A member of the batting side’s Penalty time is served during 
Playing time, in the event of an unscheduled stoppage, the 
stoppage	time	after	the	batsman	notifies	an	umpire	in	person	
that he is able to participate shall count as Penalty time served.
 25.3.3 If any unserved Penalty time remains at the end of a team’s 
innings, it shall be carried forward to the next innings of the 
match if appropriate.
 25.4 Batsman retiring
 25.4.1 A batsman may retire at any time during his innings when the 
ball is dead. The umpires, before allowing play to proceed, shall 
be informed of the reason for a batsman retiring.
 25.4.2 If a batsman retires because of illness, injury or any other 
unavoidable cause, that batsman is entitled to resume his 
innings. If for any reason this does not happen, that batsman is 
to	be	recorded	as	‘Retired	–	not	out’. 24.2.3.2 The player shall not be permitted to bat in the match 
until his team’s batting innings has been in progress 
for the length of playing time that is equal to the 
unexpired Penalty time carried forward from the 
previous	innings.	However,	once	his	side	has	lost	five	
wickets in its batting innings, he may bat immediately. 
If any unexpired penalty time remains at the end of 
that batting innings, it is carried forward to the next 
and subsequent innings of the match.
	 24.2.4	 If	the	player	leaves	the	field	before	having	served	all	of	his	Penalty 	
time, the balance is carried forward as unserved Penalty time.
 24.2.5 On any occasion of absence, the amount of playing time for 
which	the	player	is	off	the	field	shall	be	added	to	any	Penalty	
time that remains unserved, subject to a maximum cumulative 
Penalty time of 120 minutes, and that player shall not bowl until 
all of his Penalty time has been served.
 24.2.6 For the purposes of clauses 24.2.3.1 and 24.2.3.2, playing time 
shall comprise the time play is in progress excluding intervals, 
intervals	between	innings	and	official	drinks	intervals.	For	
clarity, a player’s Penalty time will continue to expire after he is 
dismissed, for the remainder of his team’s batting innings.
 24.2.7 If there is an unscheduled break in play, the stoppage time shall 
count as Penalty time served, provided that,
	 24.2.7.1	 the	fielder	who	was	on	the	field	of	play	at	the	start	of	
the	break	either	takes	the	field	on	the	resumption	of	
play, or his side is now batting.
	 24.2.7.2	 the	fielder	who	was	already	off	the	field	at	the	start	
of	the	break	notifies	an	umpire	in	person	as	soon	as	
he	is	able	to	participate,	and	either	takes	the	field	
on the resumption of play, or his side is now batting. 
Stoppage	time	before	an	umpire	has	been	so	notified	
shall not count towards unserved Penalty time.
 24.2.8 Any unserved Penalty time shall be carried forward into the 
next innings of the match, as applicable.
 24.3 Penalty time not incurred
  A nominated player’s absence will not incur Penalty time if,
 24.3.1 he has suffered an external blow during the match and, as a 
result,	has	justifiably	left	the	field	or	is	unable	to	take	the	field.
 24.3.2 in the opinion of the umpires, the player has been absent or has 
left	the	field	for	other	wholly	acceptable	reasons,	which	shall	
not include illness or internal injury.
	 24.3.3	 the	player	is	absent	from	the	field	for	a	period	of	8	minutes	or	less.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.50 4.51 26.3 Trial run-up
  A bowler is permitted to have a trial run-up provided the umpire is 
satisfied	that	it	will	not	contravene	either	of	clauses	41.9	(Time	wasting	
by	the	fielding	side)	or	41.12	(Fielder	damaging	the	pitch).
 26.4 Penalties for contravention
  All forms of practice are subject to the provisions of clauses 41.3 (The 
match	ball	–	changing	its	condition),	41.9	(Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	
side) and 41.12 (Fielder damaging the pitch).
 26.4.1 If there is a contravention of any of the provisions of clause 26.1 
or 26.2, the umpire shall:
 –  warn the player that the practice is not permitted;
 –  inform the other umpire and, as soon as practicable, both 
captains of the reason for this action.
 26.4.1.1 If the contravention is by a batsman at the wicket, 
the umpire shall inform the other batsman and each 
incoming batsman that the warning has been issued. 
The warning shall apply to the team of that player 
throughout the match.
 26.4.2 If during the match there is any further contravention by any 
player of that team, the umpire shall:
 –  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing side;
 –  inform the other umpire, the scorers and, as soon as 
practicable, both captains, and, if the contravention is during 
play, the batsmen at the wicket.
 27 THE WICKET-KEEPER
 27.1 Protective equipment
	 	 The	wicket-keeper	is	the	only	fielder	permitted	to	wear	gloves	and 	
external leg guards. If these are worn, they are to be regarded as part 
of his person for the purposes of clause 28.2 (Fielding the ball). If by the 
wicket-keeper’s actions and positioning when the ball comes into play it 
is apparent to the umpires that he will not be able to carry out the normal 
duties of a wicket-keeper, he shall forfeit this right and also the right to 
be recognised as a wicket-keeper for the purposes of clauses 33.2 (A fair 
catch), 39 (Stumped), 28.1 (Protective equipment), 28.4 (Limitation of 
on-side	fielders)	and	28.5	(Fielders	not	to	encroach	on	pitch).
 27.2 Gloves
 27.2.1 If, as permitted under clause 27.1, the wicket-keeper wears 
gloves,	they	shall	have	no	webbing	between	the	fingers	except	
joining	index	finger	and	thumb,	where	webbing	may	be	inserted	
as a means of support.
 27.2.2 If used, the webbing shall be a single piece of non-stretch 
material which, although it may have facing material attached, 
shall have no reinforcements or tucks. 25.4.3 If a batsman retires for any reason other than as in clause 25.4.2, 
the innings of that batsman may be resumed only with the 
consent of the opposing captain. If for any reason his innings is 
not	resumed,	that	batsman	is	to	be	recorded	as	‘Retired	–	out’.
 25.4.4 If after retiring a batsman resumes his innings, subject to the 
requirements of clauses 25.4.2 and 25.4.3, it shall be only at the 
fall of a wicket or the retirement of another batsman.
 25.5 Runners
  Runners shall not be permitted.
 26 PRACTICE ON THE FIELD
 26.1 Practice on the pitch or the rest of the square
 26.1.1 There shall not be any practice on the pitch at any time.
 26.1.2 There shall not be any practice on the rest of the square at any 
time except with the approval of the umpires.
 26.1.2.1 If approved by the umpires, the use of the square for 
practice on any day of any match will be restricted to 
any	netted	practice	area	or	bowling	strips	specifically	
prepared on the edge of the square for that purpose.
 26.1.2.2 Bowling practice on the bowling strips referred to above 
shall also be permitted during the interval (and change 
of innings if not the interval) unless the umpires consider 
that, in the prevailing conditions of ground and weather, 
it will be detrimental to the surface of the square.
	 26.2	 Practice	on	the	outfield
 26.2.1 On any day of the match, all forms of practice are permitted on 
the	outfield
	 –		before	the	start	of	play
	 –		after	the	close	of	play,	and
		 –		during	the	interval	or	between	innings
	 	 providing	the	umpires	are	satisfied	that	such	practice	will	not	
cause	significant	deterioration	in	the	condition	of	the	outfield.
 26.2.2 Between the call of Play and the call of Time, practice shall be 
permitted	on	the	outfield,	providing	that	all	of	the	following	
conditions are met:
	 –		only	the	fielders	as	defined	in	paragraph	7	of	Appendix	A	
participate in such practice.
	 –		no	ball	other	than	the	match	ball	is	used	for	this	practice.
	 –		no	bowling	practice	takes	place	in	the	area	between	the	square 	
and the boundary in a direction parallel to the match pitch.
	 –		the	umpires	are	satisfied	that	it	will	not	contravene	either	
of clauses 41.3 (The match ball changing its condition) or 41.9 
(Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	side).
	 	 Bowling	a	ball,	using	a	short	run	up	to	a	player	in	the	outfield	is	
not to be regarded as bowling practice but shall be subject to 
the other conditions in this clause.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.52 4.53 28 THE FIELDER
 28.1 Protective equipment
	 	 No	fielder	other	than	the	wicket-keeper	shall	be	permitted	to	wear	
gloves or external leg guards. In addition, protection for the hand or 
fingers	may	be	worn	only	with	the	consent	of	the	umpires.
 28.2 Fielding the ball
	 28.2.1	 A	fielder	may	field	the	ball	with	any	part	of	his	person	(see	
paragraph 12 of Appendix A), except as in clause 28.2.1.2. 
However,	he	will	be	deemed	to	have	fielded	the	ball	illegally	if,	
while the ball is in play he wilfully:
	 28.2.1.1	 uses	anything	other	than	part	of	his	person	to	field	
the ball.
 28.2.1.2 extends his clothing with his hands and uses this to 
field	the	ball.
 28.2.1.3 discards a piece of clothing, equipment or any other 
object which subsequently makes contact with the ball.
	 28.2.2	 It	is	not	illegal	fielding	if	the	ball	in	play	makes	contact	with	a	
piece of clothing, equipment or any other object which has 
accidentally	fallen	from	the	fielder’s	person.
	 28.2.3	 If	a	fielder	illegally	fields	the	ball,	the	ball	shall	immediately	
become dead and
 –  the penalty for a No ball or a Wide shall stand.
 –  any runs completed by the batsmen shall be credited to the 
batting side, together with the run in progress if the batsmen 
had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
 –  the ball shall not count as one of the over.
 In addition the umpire shall:
 –  award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.
 –		inform	the	other	umpire	and	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
of the reason for this action.
 –  inform the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, the captain 
of the batting side of what has occurred.
	 28.3	 Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side
	 28.3.1	 Protective	helmets,	when	not	in	use	by	fielders,	may	not	be	
placed on the ground, above the surface except behind the 
wicket-keeper and in line with both sets of stumps.
 28.3.2 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described in 
clause 28.3.1,
 28.3.2.1 the ball shall become dead
  and, subject to clause 28.3.3,
 28.3.2.2 an award of 5 Penalty runs shall be made to the 
batting side; 27.2.3 The top edge of the webbing shall not protrude beyond the 
straight	line	joining	the	top	of	the	index	finger	to	the	top	of	the	
thumb and shall be taut when a hand wearing the glove has the 
thumb fully extended. See paragraph 3 of Appendix B.
 27.3 Position of wicket-keeper
 27.3.1 The wicket-keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket at the 
striker’s end from the moment the ball comes into play until a 
ball delivered by the bowler
  touches the bat or person of the striker, or
  passes the wicket at the striker’s end, or
  the striker attempts a run.
 27.3.2 In the event of the wicket-keeper contravening this clause, 
the striker’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball as soon as 
applicable after the delivery of the ball.
 27.4 Movement by wicket-keeper
 27.4.1 After the ball comes into play and before it reaches the striker, 
it	is	unfair	if	the	wicket-keeper	significantly	alters	his	position	in	
relation to the striker’s wicket, except for the following:
 27.4.1.1 movement of a few paces forward for a slower 
delivery, unless in so doing it brings him within reach 
of the wicket.
 27.4.1.2 lateral movement in response to the direction in 
which the ball has been delivered.
 27.4.1.3 movement in response to the stroke that the striker is 
playing or that his actions suggest he intends to play. 
However the provisions of clause 27.3 shall apply.
 27.4.2 In the event of unfair movement by the wicket-keeper, either 
umpire shall call and signal Dead ball.
 27.5 Restriction on actions of wicket-keeper
  If, in the opinion of either umpire, the wicket-keeper interferes with 
the striker’s right to play the ball and to guard his wicket, clause 20.4.2.6 
(Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball) shall apply.
  If, however, either umpire considers that the interference by the wicket-
keeper was wilful, then clause 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract 
striker) shall also apply.
 27.6 Interference with wicket-keeper by striker
  If, in playing at the ball or in the legitimate defence of his wicket, the 
striker interferes with the wicket-keeper, he shall not be out except as 
provided for in clause 37.3 (Obstructing a ball from being caught).ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.54 4.55	 28.6	 Movement	by	any	fielder	other	than	the	wicket-keeper
	 28.6.1	 Any	movement	by	any	fielder,	excluding	the	wicket-keeper,	
after the ball comes into play and before the ball reaches the 
striker, is unfair except for the following:
 28.6.1.1 minor adjustments to stance or position in relation to 
the striker’s wicket.
	 28.6.1.2	 movement	by	any	fielder,	other	than	a	close	fielder,	
towards the striker or the striker’s wicket that does 
not	significantly	alter	the	position	of	the	fielder.
	 28.6.1.3	 movement	by	any	fielder	in	response	to	the	stroke	
that the striker is playing or that his actions suggest 
he intends to play.
	 28.6.2	 In	all	circumstances	clause	28.4	(Limitation	of	on	side	fielders)	
shall apply.
 28.6.3 In the event of such unfair movement, either umpire shall call 
and signal Dead ball.
 28.6.4 Note also the provisions of clause 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to 
distract striker). See also clause 27.4 (Movement by wicket-keeper).
	 28.7	 Restrictions	on	the	placement	of	fielders	
 28.7.1 In addition to the restrictions contained in clause 28.4 above, 
further	fielding	restrictions	shall	apply	to	certain	overs	in	each 	
innings.	The	nature	of	such	fielding	restrictions	 and	the	overs	during	
which they shall apply are set out in the following paragraphs. 
	 28.7.2	 The	following	fielding	restrictions	shall	apply:	
	 28.7.2.1	 Two	semi-circles	shall	be	drawn	on	the	field	of	play.	The 	
semi-circles shall have as their centre the middle stump 
at either end of the pitch. The radius of each of the semi-
circles shall be 30 yards (27.43 metres). The semi-circles 
shall be linked by two parallel straight lines drawn on the 
field.	(Refer	to	paragraph	2	of	Appendix	C).	The	fielding 	
restriction areas should be marked by continuous painted 
white	lines	or	‘dots’	at	5	yard	(4.57	metres)	intervals,	each 	
‘dot’	to	be	covered	by	a	white	plastic	or	rubber	(but	not 	
metal) disc measuring 7 inches (18 cm) in diameter. 
 28.7.2.2 At the instant of delivery: 
 28.7.2.2.1 Powerplay 1 –	no	more	than	two	(2)	fielders	
shall	be	permitted	outside	this	fielding	
restriction area. In an innings of 50 overs, 
these are overs 1 to 10 inclusive. 
 28.7.2.2.2 Powerplay 2 –	 no	more	than	four	(4)	fielders	
shall	be	permitted	outside	this	fielding	
restriction area. In an innings of 50 overs, 
these are overs 11 to 40 inclusive. 
 28.7.2.2.3 Powerplay 3 –	no	more	than	five	(5)	fielders	
shall	be	permitted	outside	this	fielding	
restriction area. In an innings of 50 overs, 
these are overs 41 to 50 inclusive.  28.3.2.3 any runs completed by the batsmen before the 
ball strikes the protective helmet shall be scored, 
together with the run in progress if the batsmen had 
already crossed at the instant of the ball striking the 
protective helmet.
 28.3.3 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described in 
clause 28.3.1, unless the circumstances of clause 23.3 (Leg byes 
not to be awarded) or clause 34 (Hit the ball twice), apply, the 
umpire shall:
 –  permit the batsmen’s runs as in clause 28.3.2.3 to be scored
 –  signal No ball or Wide ball to the scorers if applicable
 –  award 5 Penalty runs as in clause 28.3.2.2
 –  award any other Penalty runs due to the batting side.
 28.3.4 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described 
in clause 28.3.1, and the circumstances of clause 23.3 (Leg byes 
not to be awarded) or clause 34 (Hit the ball twice) apply, the 
umpire shall:
 –  disallow all runs to the batting side
 –  return any not out batsman to his original end
 –  signal No ball or Wide ball to the scorers if applicable
 – award any 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for Penalty 
runs under clause 28.3.2.
	 28.4	 Limitation	of	on	side	fielders
	 28.4.1	 At	the	instant	of	delivery,	there	may	not	be	more	than	5	fielders	
on the leg side.
 28.4.2 At the instant of the bowler’s delivery there shall not be more 
than	two	fielders,	other	than	the	wicket-keeper,	behind	the	
popping	crease	on	the	on	side.	A	fielder	will	be	considered	to	
be behind the popping crease unless the whole of his person 
whether grounded or in the air is in front of this line.
	 28.4.3	 In	the	event	of	infringement	of	this	clause	by	any	fielder,	the	
striker’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball.
 28.5 Fielders not to encroach on pitch
  While the ball is in play and until the ball has made contact with the 
striker’s	bat	or	person,	or	has	passed	the	striker’s	bat,	no	fielder,	other	
than the bowler, may have any part of his person grounded on or 
extended over the pitch.
	 	 In	the	event	of	infringement	of	this	clause	by	any	fielder	other	than	the	
wicket-keeper, the bowler’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball as 
soon as possible after delivery of the ball. Note, however, clause 27.3 
(Position of wicket-keeper).ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.56 4.57 28.7.2.4 If play is interrupted during an innings and the table 
above applies, the Powerplay takes immediate effect. 
For the avoidance of doubt this applies even if the 
interruption has occurred mid-over.
  Illustrations:
  A 50 over innings is interrupted after 8.3 overs and 
reduced to 32 overs. The new phases are 7+19+6. 
Therefore	the	middle	phase	fielding	restrictions	take	
immediate effect when play resumes and last for a 
further	17.3	overs.	The	final	phase	begins	after	26	overs	
have been bowled.
  A 40 over innings is interrupted after 18.5 overs 
and reduced to 22 overs. The new phases are 
5+13+4.	When	play	resumes,	the	final	phase	fielding	
restrictions apply for the remaining 3.1 overs.
	 28.7.2.5	 At	the	commencement	of	the	middle	and	final	
phases of an innings, the umpire shall signal such 
commencement to the scorers by rotating his arm in a 
large circle. 
 28.7.2.6 The scoreboard shall indicate the current Powerplay 
in progress. 
 28.7.2.7 In the event of an infringement of any of the above 
fielding	restrictions,	the	square	leg	umpire	shall	call	
and signal No ball.
 29 THE WICKET IS DOWN
 29.1 Wicket put down
 29.1.1 The wicket is put down if a bail is completely removed from the 
top of the stumps, or a stump is struck out of the ground,
 29.1.1.1 by the ball,
 29.1.1.2 by the striker’s bat if held or by any part of the bat 
that he is holding,
 29.1.1.3 for the purpose of this clause only, by the striker’s 
bat not in hand, or by any part of the bat which has 
become detached,
 29.1.1.4 by the striker’s person or by any part of his clothing or 
equipment becoming detached from his person,
	 29.1.1.5	 by	a	fielder	with	his	hand	or	arm,	providing	that	the	
ball is held in the hand or hands so used, or in the 
hand of the arm so used.
	 29.1.1.6	 The	wicket	is	also	put	down	if	a	fielder	strikes	or	pulls	
a stump out of the ground as in clause 29.1.1.5.
 29.1.2 The disturbance of a bail, whether temporary or not, shall not 
constitute its complete removal from the top of the stumps, but 
if a bail in falling lodges between two of the stumps this shall be 
regarded as complete removal. 28.7.2.3 In circumstances when the number of overs of 
the batting team is reduced, the number of overs 
within each phase of the innings shall be reduced 
in accordance with the table below. For the sake of 
clarity, it should be noted that the table shall apply to 
both the 1st and 2nd innings of the match.
INNINGS  
DURATIONPOWER PLAY  
1POWER PLAY  
2POWER PLAY  
TOTAL
20 4 12 4
21 4 13 4
22 5 13 4
23 5 14 4
24 5 14 5
25 5 15 5
26 5 16 5
27 6 16 5
28 6 17 5
29 6 17 6
30 6 18 6
31 6 19 6
32 7 19 6
33 7 20 6
34 7 20 7
35 7 21 7
36 7 22 7
37 8 22 7
38 8 23 7
39 8 23 8
40 8 24 8
41 8 25 8
42 9 25 8
43 9 26 8
44 9 26 9
45 9 27 9
46 9 28 9
47 10 28 9
48 10 29 9
49 10 29 10ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.58 4.59 30.2.3 If there is no batsman in either ground, then each ground 
belongs to whichever batsman is nearer to it, or, if the batsmen 
are level, to whichever batsman was nearer to it immediately 
prior to their drawing level.
 30.2.4 If a ground belongs to one batsman then the other ground 
belongs to the other batsman, irrespective of his position.
 30.3 Position of non-striker
  The non-striker, when standing at the bowler’s end, should be 
positioned on the opposite side of the wicket to that from which the 
ball is being delivered, unless a request to do otherwise is granted by 
the umpire.
 31 APPEALS
 31.1 Umpire not to give batsman out without an appeal
  Neither umpire shall give a batsman out, even though he may be out 
under	these	Playing	Conditions,	unless	appealed	to	by	a	fielder.	This	
shall not debar a batsman who is out under these Playing Conditions 
from leaving the wicket without an appeal having been made. Note, 
however, the provisions of clause 31.7.
 31.2 Batsman dismissed
  A batsman is dismissed if he is
  either given out by an umpire, on appeal
  or out under these Playing Conditions and leaves the wicket as in clause 31.1.
 31.3 Timing of appeals
  For an appeal to be valid, it must be made before the bowler begins his 
run-up or, if there is no run-up, his bowling action to deliver the next 
ball, and before Time has been called.
  The call of Over does not invalidate an appeal made prior to the start of 
the following over, provided Time has not been called. See clauses 12.2 
(Call of Time) and 17.2 (Start of an over).
 31.4 Appeal “How’s That?”
  An appeal “How’s That?” covers all ways of being out.
 31.5 Answering appeals
  The striker’s end umpire shall answer all appeals arising out of any of clauses 
35 (Hit wicket), 39 (Stumped) or 38 (Run out) when this occurs at the 
wicket-keeper’s end. The bowler’s end umpire shall answer all other appeals.
  When an appeal is made, each umpire shall answer on any matter that 
falls within his jurisdiction.
  When a batsman has been given Not out, either umpire may answer an 
appeal, made in accordance with clause 31.3, if it is on a further matter 
and is within his jurisdiction. 29.2 One bail off
	 	 If	one	bail	is	off,	it	shall	be	sufficient	for	the	purpose	of	putting	the	
wicket down to remove the remaining bail or to strike or pull any of the 
three stumps out of the ground, in any of the ways stated in clause 29.1.
 29.3 Remaking wicket
  If a wicket is broken or put down while the ball is in play, it shall not be 
remade by an umpire until the ball is dead. See clause 20 (Dead ball). 
Any	fielder	may,	however,	while	the	ball	is	in	play,
 –  replace a bail or bails on top of the stumps.
 –  put back one or more stumps into the ground where the wicket 
originally stood.
 29.4 Dispensing with bails
  If the umpires have agreed to dispense with bails in accordance with 
clause 8.4 (Dispensing with bails), it is for the umpire concerned to 
decide whether or not the wicket has been put down.
 29.4.1 After a decision to play without bails, the wicket has been put 
down	if	the	umpire	concerned	is	satisfied	that	the	wicket	has 	
been struck by the ball, by the striker’s bat, person or items of his 
clothing or equipment as described in clauses 29.1.1.2, 29.1.1.3 or 
29.1.1.4,	or	by	a	fielder	in	the	manner	described	in	clause	29.1.1.5.
 29.4.2 If the wicket has already been broken or put down, clause 
29.4.1 shall apply to any stump or stumps still in the ground. 
Any	fielder	may	replace	a	stump	or	stumps,	in	accordance	with	
clause 29.3, in order to have an opportunity of putting the 
wicket down.
 30 BATSMAN OUT OF HIS GROUND
 30.1 When out of his ground
 30.1.1 A batsman shall be considered to be out of his ground unless 
some part of his person or bat is grounded behind the popping 
crease at that end.
 30.1.2 However, a batsman shall not be considered to be out of his 
ground if, in running or diving towards his ground and beyond, 
and having grounded some part of his person or bat beyond the 
popping crease, there is subsequent loss of contact between 
the ground and any part of his person or bat, or between the 
bat and person.
 30.2 Which is a batsman’s ground
 30.2.1 If only one batsman is within a ground, it is his ground and will 
remain so even if he is later joined there by the other batsman.
 30.2.2 If both batsmen are in the same ground and one of them 
subsequently leaves it, the ground belongs to the batsman who 
remains in it.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.60 4.61 33.2 A fair catch
 33.2.1 A catch will be fair only if, in every case
  either the ball, at any time
	 	 or	any	fielder	in	contact	with	the	ball,
  is not grounded beyond the boundary before the catch is 
completed. Note clauses 19.4 (Ball grounded beyond the 
boundary) and 19.5 (Fielder grounded beyond the boundary).
 33.2.2 Furthermore, a catch will be fair if any of the following 
conditions applies:
	 33.2.2.1	 the	ball	is	held	in	the	hand	or	hands	of	a	fielder,	even	
if the hand holding the ball is touching the ground, 
or is hugged to the body, or lodges in the external 
protective	equipment	worn	by	a	fielder,	or	lodges	
accidentally	in	a	fielder’s	clothing.
	 33.2.2.2	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	been	lawfully	
struck more than once by the striker, but only if it has 
not	been	grounded	since	it	was	first	struck.	See	clause	
34 (Hit the ball twice).
	 33.2.2.3	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	touched	the	wicket, 	
an	umpire,	another	fielder	or	the	other	batsman.
	 33.2.2.4	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	crossed	the	
boundary in the air, provided that the conditions in 
clause 33.2.1 are met.
 33.2.2.5 the ball is caught off an obstruction within the boundary 
that is not designated a boundary by the umpires.
 33.3 Making a catch
	 	 The	act	of	making	a	catch	shall	start	from	the	time	when	the	ball	first	
comes	into	contact	with	a	fielder’s	person	and	shall	end	when	a	fielder	
obtains complete control over both the ball and his own movement.
 33.4 No runs to be scored
  If the striker is dismissed Caught, runs from that delivery completed by 
the batsmen before the completion of the catch shall not be scored but 
any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall stand. Clause 18.12 
(Batsman returning to wicket he has left) shall apply from the instant of 
the completion of the catch.
 33.5 Caught to take precedence
  If the criteria of clause 33.1 are met and the striker is not out Bowled, 
then he is out Caught, even though a decision against either batsman 
for	another	method	of	dismissal	would	be	justified. 31.6 Consultation by umpires
  Each umpire shall answer appeals on matters within his/her own 
jurisdiction. If an umpire is doubtful about any point that the other 
umpire may have been in a better position to see, he/she shall consult 
the latter on this point of fact and shall then give the decision. If, after 
consultation, there is still doubt remaining, the decision shall be Not out.
 31.7 Batsman leaving the wicket under a misapprehension
	 	 An	umpire	shall	intervene	if	satisfied	that	a	batsman,	not	having	been	
given out, has left the wicket under a misapprehension of being out. The 
umpire intervening shall call and signal Dead ball to prevent any further 
action	by	the	fielding	side	and	shall	recall	the	batsman.
  A batsman may be recalled at any time up to the instant when the ball 
comes	into	play	for	the	next	delivery,	unless	it	is	the	final	wicket	of	the	
innings, in which case it should be up to the instant when the umpires 
leave	the	field.
 31.8 Withdrawal of an appeal
	 	 The	captain	of	the	fielding	side	may	withdraw	an	appeal	only	after	
obtaining the consent of the umpire within whose jurisdiction the 
appeal falls. If such consent is given, the umpire concerned shall, if 
applicable, revoke the decision and recall the batsman.
  The withdrawal of an appeal must be before the instant when the 
ball comes into play for the next delivery or, if the innings has been 
completed,	the	instant	when	the	umpires	leave	the	field.
 32 BOWLED
 32.1 Out Bowled
 32.1.1 The striker is out Bowled if his wicket is put down by a ball 
delivered	by	the	bowler,	not	being	a	No	ball,	even	if	it	first	
touches the striker’s bat or person.
 32.1.2 However, the striker shall not be out Bowled if before striking 
the wicket the ball has been in contact with any other player 
or an umpire. The striker will, however, be subject to clauses 37 
(Obstructing	the	field),	38	(Run	out)	and	39	(Stumped).
 32.2 Bowled to take precedence
  The striker is out Bowled if his wicket is put down as in clause 32.1, even 
though a decision against him for any other method of dismissal would 
be	justified.
 33 CAUGHT
 33.1 Out Caught
  The striker is out Caught if a ball delivered by the bowler, not being a No 
ball, touches his bat without having previously been in contact with any 
fielder,	and	is	subsequently	held	by	a	fielder	as	a	fair	catch,	as	described	
in clauses 33.2 and 33.3, before it touches the ground.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.62 4.63 35 HIT WICKET
 35.1 Out Hit wicket
 35.1.1 The striker is out Hit wicket if, after the bowler has entered 
the delivery stride and while the ball is in play, his wicket is 
put down by either the striker’s bat or person as described 
in clauses 29.1.1.2 to 29.1.1.4 (Wicket put down) in any of the 
following circumstances:
 35.1.1.1 in the course of any action taken by him in preparing 
to receive or in receiving a delivery,
	 35.1.1.2	 in	setting	off	for	the	first	run	immediately	after	
playing or playing at the ball,
 35.1.1.3 if no attempt is made to play the ball, in setting off 
for	the	first	run,	providing	that	in	the	opinion	of	the	
umpire this is immediately after the striker has had 
the opportunity of playing the ball,
  35.1.1.4 in lawfully making a second or further stroke for the 
purpose of guarding his wicket within the provisions 
of clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).
 35.1.2 If the striker puts his wicket down in any of the ways described 
in clauses 29.1.1.2 to 29.1.1.4 before the bowler has entered the 
delivery stride, either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball.
 35.2 Not out Hit wicket
  The striker is not out under this clause should his wicket be put down in 
any of the ways referred to in clause 35.1 if any of the following applies:
	 –		it	occurs	after	the	striker	has	completed	any	action	in	receiving	the	
delivery, other than in clauses 35.1.1.2 to 35.1.1.4.
	 –		it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	in	the	act	of	running,	other	than	setting	
off	immediately	for	the	first	run.
	 –	 it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	trying	to	avoid	being	run	out	or	stumped.
	 –		it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	trying	to	avoid	a	throw	in	at	any	time.
	 –		the	bowler	after	entering	the	delivery	stride	does	not	deliver	the	ball.	
In this case either umpire shall immediately call and signal Dead ball. 
See clause 20.4 (Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball).
	 –		the	delivery	is	a	No	ball.
 36 LEG BEFORE WICKET
 36.1 Out LBW
  The striker is out LBW if all the circumstances set out in clauses 36.1.1 to 
36.1.5 apply.
 36.1.1 The bowler delivers a ball, not being a No ball
 36.1.2 the ball, if it is not intercepted full-pitch, pitches in line between 
wicket and wicket or on the off side of the striker’s wicket
 36.1.3 the ball not having previously touched his bat, the striker 
intercepts the ball, either full-pitch or after pitching, with any 
part of his person 34 HIT THE BALL TWICE
 34.1 Out Hit the ball twice
 34.1.1 The striker is out Hit the ball twice if, while the ball is in play, it 
strikes any part of his person or is struck by his bat and, before 
the	ball	has	been	touched	by	a	fielder,	the	striker	wilfully	strikes	
it again with his bat or person, other than a hand not holding 
the bat, except for the sole purpose of guarding his wicket. See 
clause	34.3	and	clause	37	(Obstructing	the	field).
	 34.1.2	 For	the	purpose	of	this	clause	‘struck’	or	‘strike’	shall	include	
contact with the person of the striker.
 34.2 Not out Hit the ball twice
  The striker will not be out under this clause if he
 34.2.1 strikes the ball a second or subsequent time in order to return 
the	ball	to	any	fielder.	
  Note, however, the provisions of clause 37.4 (Returning the ball 
to	a	fielder).
	 34.2.2	 wilfully	strikes	the	ball	after	it	has	touched	a	fielder.	Note,	
however	the	provisions	of	clause	37.1	(Out	Obstructing	the	field).
 34.3 Ball lawfully struck more than once
  The striker may, solely in order to guard his wicket and before the 
ball	has	been	touched	by	a	fielder,	lawfully	strike	the	ball	a	second	or	
subsequent time with the bat, or with any part of his person other than 
a hand not holding the bat. The striker may guard his wicket even if the 
delivery is a No ball.
  However, the striker may not prevent the ball from being caught by 
striking the ball more than once in defence of his wicket. See clause 37.3 
(Obstructing a ball from being caught).
 34.4 Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once
  When the ball is lawfully struck more than once, as permitted in clause 
34.3, if the ball does not become dead for any reason, the umpire shall 
call and signal Dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at 
the	completion	of	the	first	run.	However,	the	umpire	shall	delay	the	call	
of Dead ball to allow the opportunity for a catch to be completed.
  The umpire shall
 –  disallow all runs to the batting side
 –  return any not out batsman to his original end
 –  signal No ball to the scorers if applicable, and
 –  award any 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for Penalty runs 
under	clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 34.5 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.64 4.65	 37.2	 Not	out	Obstructing	the	field
	 	 A	batsman	shall	not	be	out	Obstructing	the	field	if
  obstruction or distraction is accidental, or
  obstruction is in order to avoid injury, or
  in the case of the striker, he makes a second or subsequent strike to 
guard his wicket lawfully as in clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than 
once). However, see clause 37.3.
 37.3 Obstructing a ball from being caught
 37.3.1  If the delivery is not a No ball, the striker is out Obstructing 
the	field	if	wilful	obstruction	or	distraction	by	either	batsman	
prevents the striker being out caught.
 37.3.2  Clause 37.3.1 shall apply even if an obstruction is caused by the 
striker in lawfully guarding his wicket under the provision of 
Clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).
 37.3.3  If an obstruction or distraction takes place from a No ball then 
the batsman who caused the obstruction or distraction will be 
out	Obstructing	the	field.
 37.3.4  Clause 37.3.3 shall not apply if the striker obstructs while 
instinctively defending his wicket with a lawful second strike.
	 37.4	 Returning	the	ball	to	a	fielder
	 	 Either	batsman	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	at	any	time	while	the	ball	
is	in	play	and,	without	the	consent	of	a	fielder,	he	uses	the	bat	or	any	
part	of	his	person	to	return	the	ball	to	any	fielder.
 37.5 Runs scored
	 	 When	either	batsman	is	dismissed	Obstructing	the	field,
 37.5.1 unless the obstruction prevents a catch from being made, any 
runs completed by the batsmen before the offence shall be 
scored, together with any runs awarded for penalties to either 
side. See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded for penalties) and 18.8 
(Runs scored when a batsman is dismissed).
 37.5.2 if the obstruction prevents a catch from being made, any runs 
completed by the batsmen shall not be scored but any penalties 
awarded to either side shall stand.
 37.6 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket. 36.1.4 the point of impact, even if above the level of the bails,
  either is between wicket and wicket
  or if the striker has made no genuine attempt to play the ball 
with the bat, is
  between wicket and wicket or outside the line of the off stump.
 36.1.5 but for the interception, the ball would have hit the wicket.
 36.2 Interception of the ball
 36.2.1 In assessing points of impact in clauses 36.1.3, 36.1.4 and 36.1.5, 
only	the	first	interception	is	to	be	considered.
 36.2.2 In assessing clause 36.1.3, if the bowler’s end umpire is not 
satisfied	that	the	ball	intercepted	the	batsman’s	person	before	
it touched the bat, the batsman shall be given Not out.
 36.2.3 In assessing clause 36.1.5, it is to be assumed that the path 
of the ball before interception would have continued after 
interception, irrespective of whether the ball might have 
pitched subsequently or not.
 36.3 Off side of wicket
  The off side of the striker’s wicket shall be determined by the striker’s 
stance at the moment the ball comes into play for that delivery. See 
paragraph 13 of Appendix A.
 37 OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD
	 37.1	 Out	Obstructing	the	field
	 37.1.1	 Either	batsman	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	except	in	the	
circumstances of clause 37.2, and while the ball is in play, he 
wilfully	attempts	to	obstruct	or	distract	the	fielding	side	by	
word or action. See also clause 34 (Hit the ball twice).
	 37.1.2	 The	striker	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	except	in	the	
circumstances of clause 37.2, in the act of receiving a ball 
delivered by the bowler, he wilfully strikes the ball with a hand 
not	holding	the	bat.	This	will	apply	whether	it	is	the	first	strike	or	
a second or subsequent strike. The act of receiving the ball shall 
extend both to playing at the ball and to striking the ball more 
than once in defence of his wicket.
 37.1.3 This clause will apply whether or not No ball is called.
 37.1.4 For the avoidance of doubt, if an umpire feels that a batsman, 
in	running	between	the	wickets,	has	significantly	changed	
his direction without probable cause and thereby obstructed 
a	fielder’s	attempt	to	effect	a	run	out,	the	batsman	should,	
on	appeal,	be	given	out,	obstructing	the	field.	It	shall	not	be	
relevant whether a run out would have occurred or not.
  If the change of direction involves the batsman crossing the 
pitch, clause 41.14 shall also apply.
  See also paragraph 2.2 of Appendix D.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.66 4.67 39 STUMPED
 39.1 Out Stumped
 39.1.1 The striker is out Stumped, except as in clause 39.3, if
  a ball which is delivered is not called No ball
  and he is out of his ground, other than as in clause 39.3.1
  and he has not attempted a run
  when his wicket is fairly put down by the wicket-keeper 
without	the	intervention	of	another	fielder.	Note,	however	
clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper).
 39.1.2 The striker is out Stumped if all the conditions of clause 39.1.1 are 
satisfied,	even	though	a	decision	of	Run	out	would	be	justified.
 39.2 Ball rebounding from wicket-keeper’s person
  If the wicket is put down by the ball, it shall be regarded as having been 
put down by the wicket-keeper if the ball rebounds on to the stumps 
from any part of the wicket-keeper’s person or equipment or has been 
kicked or thrown on to the stumps by the wicket-keeper.
 39.3 Not out Stumped
 39.3.1 The striker will not be out Stumped if, after having received the 
delivery, he has left his ground in order to avoid injury.
 39.3.2 If the striker is not out Stumped he may, except in the 
circumstances of clause 38.2.2.2 (Batsman not out run out) be 
out Run out if the conditions of clause 38.1 (Out Run out) apply.
 40 TIMED OUT
 40.1 Out Timed out
 40.1.1 After the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batsman, the 
incoming batsman must, unless Time has been called, be in 
position to take guard or for the other batsman to be ready 
to receive the next ball within 3 minutes of the dismissal or 
retirement. If this requirement is not met, the incoming batsman 
will be out, Timed out.
 40.1.2 In the event of an extended delay in which no batsman comes 
to the wicket, the umpires shall adopt the procedure of clause 
16.2 (ICC Match Referee awarding a match). For the purposes of 
that clause the start of the action shall be taken as the expiry of 
the 3 minutes referred to above.
 40.2 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket. 38 RUN OUT
 38.1 Out Run out
  Either batsman is out Run out, except as in clause 38.2, if, at any time 
while the ball is in play,
  he is out of his ground
	 	 and	his	wicket	is	fairly	put	down	by	the	action	of	a	fielder
  even though No ball has been called, except in the circumstances of 
clause 38.2.2.2, and whether or not a run is being attempted.
 38.2 Batsman not out Run out
 38.2.1 A batsman is not out Run out in the circumstances of clauses 
38.2.1.1 or 38.2.1.2.
 38.2.1.1 He has been within his ground and has subsequently 
left it to avoid injury, when the wicket is put down.
  Note also the provisions of clause 30.1.2 (When out of 
his ground).
  38.2.1.2 The ball delivered by the bowler has not made 
contact	with	a	fielder,	before	the	wicket	is	put	down.
 38.2.2 The striker is not out Run out in any of the circumstances in 
clauses 38.2.2.1 and 38.2.2.2.
 38.2.2.1 He is out Stumped. See clause 39.1.2 (Out Stumped).
 38.2.2.2 No ball has been called
  and he is out of his ground not attempting a run
  and the wicket is fairly put down by the wicket-
keeper	without	the	intervention	of	another	fielder.
 38.3 Which batsman is out
  The batsman out in the circumstances of clause 38.1 is the one whose 
ground is at the end where the wicket is put down. See clause 30.2 
(Which is a batsman’s ground).
 38.4 Runs scored
  If either batsman is dismissed Run out, the run in progress when the 
wicket is put down shall not be scored, but any runs completed by the 
batsmen shall stand, together with any runs for penalties awarded to 
either side. See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded for penalties) and 18.8 (Runs 
scored when a batsman is dismissed).
 38.5 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.68 4.69 41.3.2.3 dry a wet ball on a piece of cloth that has been 
approved by the umpires.
 41.3.3 The umpires shall consider the condition of the ball to have 
been unfairly changed if any action by any player does not 
comply with the conditions in clause 41.3.2.
 41.3.4 If the umpires together agree that the condition of the ball has 
been unfairly changed by a member or members of either side, 
or that its condition is inconsistent with the use it has received, 
they shall consider that there has been a contravention of 
this clause and decide together whether they can identify the 
player(s) responsible for such conduct. 
 41.3.5 If it is possible to identify the player(s) responsible for changing 
the condition of the ball, the umpires shall;
 41.3.5.1 Change the ball forthwith. 
 41.3.5.1.1 If the umpires together agree that the 
condition of the ball has been unfairly 
changed by a member or members of the 
fielding	side,	the	batsman	at	the	wicket	
shall choose the replacement ball from 
a selection of six other balls of various 
degrees of usage (including a new ball) and 
of the same brand as the ball in use prior to 
the contravention.
 41.3.5.1.2 If the umpires together agree that the 
condition of the ball has been unfairly 
changed by a member or members of the 
batting side, the umpires shall select and 
bring into use immediately, a ball which shall 
have wear comparable to that of the previous 
ball immediately prior to the contravention.
 41.3.5.2 Additionally, the bowler’s end umpire shall
 –  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing side.
 –  if appropriate, inform the batsmen at the wicket 
and	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	that	the	ball	has	
been changed and the reason for their action.
 –  inform the captain of the batting side as soon as 
practicable of what has occurred.
  The umpires shall then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the player(s) concerned.
 41.3.6 If it is not possible to identify the player(s) responsible for 
changing the condition of the ball, the umpires shall;
 41.3.6.1 Change the ball forthwith. The umpires shall choose 
the replacement ball for one of similar wear and 
of the same brand as the ball in use prior to the 
contravention.
 41.3.6.2 The bowler’s end umpire shall issue the captain with a 
first	and	final	warning,	and 41 UNFAIR PLAY
 41.1 Fair and unfair play – responsibility of captains
  The captains are responsible for ensuring that play is conducted within 
the Spirit of Cricket, as well as within these Playing Conditions.
 41.2 Fair and unfair play – responsibility of umpires
 41.2.1  The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play. If 
either umpire considers that any action by a player, not covered 
by these Playing Conditions, is unfair, he/she shall, call and signal 
Dead ball, if appropriate, as soon as it becomes clear that the call 
will not disadvantage the non-offending side , and report the 
matter to the other umpire. 
	 41.2.1.1		 If	this	is	a	first	offence	by	that	side,	the	bowler’s	end	
umpire shall then
 -  summon the offending player’s captain and issue 
a	first	and	final	warning	which	shall	apply	to	all 	
members of the team for the remainder of the match.
 -  warn the offending player’s captain that any further 
such offence by any member of his team shall result 
in the award of 5 Penalty runs to the opposing team.
 41.2.1.2  If this is a second or subsequent offence by that side 
the bowler’s end umpire shall then
 -  summon the offending player’s captain and inform 
him that there has been a further such offence.
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing side.
 41.2.1.3  The umpires shall may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the player concerned.
 41.3 The match ball – changing its condition
 41.3.1 The umpires shall make frequent and irregular inspections of the 
ball. In addition, they shall immediately inspect the ball if they 
suspect anyone of attempting to change the condition of the 
ball, except as permitted in clause 41.3.2.
 41.3.2 It is an offence for any player to take any action which changes 
the condition of the ball.
   Except in carrying out his normal duties, a batsman is not 
allowed to wilfully damage the ball other than, when the ball is 
in play, in striking it with the bat. See also clause 5.5 (Damage to 
the ball).
	 	 A	fielder	may,	however:
 41.3.2.1 polish the ball on his clothing provided that no 
artificial	substance	is	used	and	that	such	polishing	
wastes no time.
 41.3.2.2 remove mud from the ball under the supervision of  
an umpire.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.70 4.71 41.5.7 The ball shall not count as one of the over.
 41.5.8 Any runs completed by the batsmen before the offence shall be 
scored, together with any runs for penalties awarded to either side. 
Additionally, the run in progress shall be scored whether or not the 
batsmen had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
 41.5.9 The batsmen at the wicket shall decide which of them is to face 
the next delivery.
 41.5.10 The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.6 Bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries
 41.6.1 Notwithstanding clause 41.6.2, the bowling of short pitched 
deliveries is dangerous if the bowler’s end umpire considers 
that, taking into consideration the skill of the striker, by their 
speed,	length,	height	and	direction	they	are	likely	to	inflict	
physical injury on him. The fact that the striker is wearing 
protective equipment shall be disregarded.
	 	 In	the	first	instance	the	umpire	decides	that	the	bowling	of	short 	
pitched deliveries has become dangerous under clause 41.6.1
 41.6.1.1 The umpire shall call and signal No ball, and when 
the ball is dead, caution the bowler and inform the 
other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	
the batsmen of what has occurred. This caution shall 
apply to that bowler throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.2 If there is a second instance, the umpire shall repeat 
the above procedure and indicate to the bowler that 
this	is	a	final	warning,	which	shall	apply	to	that	bowler	
throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.3 Should there be any further instance by the same 
bowler in that innings, the umpire shall:
 –  call and signal No ball
 –  when the ball is dead, direct the captain of the 
fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	immediately	
from bowling
 –  inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to 
bowl again in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another 
bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part of the 
previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the 
next over.
 –  The umpire shall report the occurrence to the 
batsmen and, as soon as practicable, to the captain 
of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the bowler concerned. 41.3.6.3 Advise the captain that should there be any further 
instances of changing the condition of the ball by that 
team during the remainder of the series, clause 41.3.5.2 
above will be adopted, with the captain deemed to 
be the player responsible for the contravention.
 41.4 Deliberate attempt to distract striker
	 41.4.1	 It	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	deliberately	to	attempt	to	distract	the	
striker while he is preparing to receive or receiving a delivery.
	 41.4.2	 If	either	umpire	considers	that	any	action	by	a	fielder	is	such	an	
attempt, he/she shall immediately call and signal Dead ball and 
inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. The bowler’s 
end umpire shall:
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side,	the	batsmen	and,	as	
soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of the 
reason for the action.
  Neither batsman shall be dismissed from that delivery and the 
ball shall not count as one of the over.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.5 Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batsman
	 41.5.1	 In	addition	to	clause	41.4,	it	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	wilfully	to	
attempt, by word or action, to distract, deceive or obstruct 
either batsman after the striker has received the ball.
 41.5.2 It is for either one of the umpires to decide whether any 
distraction, deception or obstruction is wilful or not.
	 41.5.3	 If	either	umpire	considers	that	a	fielder	has	caused	or	attempted	
to cause such a distraction, deception or obstruction, he/she 
shall immediately call and signal Dead ball and inform the other 
umpire of the reason for the call.
 41.5.4 Neither batsman shall be dismissed from that delivery.
 41.5.5 If an obstruction involves physical contact, the umpires 
together shall decide whether or not an offence under clause 42 
(Players’ conduct) has been committed.
 41.5.5.1 If an offence under clause 42 (Players’ conduct) 
has been committed, they shall apply the relevant 
procedures in clause 42 and shall also apply each of 
clauses 41.5.7 to 41.5.9.
 41.5.5.2 If they consider that there has been no offence under 
clause 42 (Players’ conduct), they shall apply each of 
clauses 41.5.6 to 41.5.10.
 41.5.6 The bowler’s end umpire shall;
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	reason	for	this	action 	
and as soon as practicable inform the captain of the batting side.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.72 4.73 –  The umpire shall report the occurrence to the 
batsmen and, as soon as practicable, to the captain 
of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the bowler concerned.
 41.6.2 Should the umpires initiate the caution and warning procedures 
set out in clauses 41.6.1.3 and 41.7 such cautions and warnings are 
not to be cumulative.
 41.7 Bowling of dangerous and unfair non-pitching deliveries
 41.7.1 Any delivery, which passes or would have passed, without 
pitching, above waist height of the striker standing upright at 
the popping crease, is to be deemed to be unfair, whether or 
not	it	is	likely	to	inflict	physical	injury	on	the	striker.	If	the	bowler	
bowls such a delivery the umpire shall immediately call and 
signal No ball.
  If, in the opinion of the umpire, such a delivery is considered likely 
to	inflict	physical	injury	on	the	batsman	by	its	speed	and	direction, 	
it shall be considered dangerous. When the ball is dead the umpire 
shall	caution	the	bowler,	indicating	that	this	is	a	first	and	final 	
warning. The umpire shall also inform the other umpire, the captain 
of	the	fielding	side	and	the	batsmen	of	what	has	occurred.	This 	
caution shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings.
 41.7.2 Should there be any further instance (where a dangerous 
non-pitching	delivery	is	bowled	and	is	considered	likely	to	inflict	
physical injury on the batsman) by the same bowler in that 
innings, the umpire shall:
 –  call and signal No ball
 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling
 –  inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again 
in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, 
who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over, 
nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.
  Additionally the umpire shall:
 –  report the occurrence to the batsmen and, as soon as 
practicable, to the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the bowler concerned.
 41.7.3 The warning sequence in clauses 41.7.1 and 41.7.2 is independent 
of the warning and action sequence in clause 41.6. 41.6.1.4 A bowler shall be limited to two fast short-pitched 
deliveries per over.
	 41.6.1.5	 A	 fast	short-pitched	 delivery	is	defined	as	a	ball,	which	
passes or would have passed above the shoulder 
height of the striker standing upright at the popping 
crease.
 41.6.1.6 The umpire at the bowler’s end shall advise the 
bowler and the batsman on strike when each fast 
short pitched delivery has been bowled.
 41.6.1.7 In addition, a ball that passes above head height of 
the batsman, standing upright at the popping crease, 
that prevents him from being able to hit it with his 
bat by means of a normal cricket stroke shall be called 
a Wide. See also clause 22.1.1.2
 41.6.1.7.1 For the avoidance of doubt any fast short 
pitched delivery that is called a Wide under 
this clause shall also count as one of the 
allowable short pitched deliveries in that over.
 41.6.1.8 In the event of a bowler bowling more than two fast 
short-pitched	deliveries	in	an	over	as	defined	in	clause	
41.6.1.5 above, the umpire at the bowler’s end shall 
call and signal No ball on each occasion. A differential 
signal shall be used to signify a fast short pitched 
delivery.	The	umpire	shall	call	and	signal	‘No	ball’	and	
then tap the head with the other hand.
 41.6.1.9 If a bowler delivers a third fast short pitched ball in an 
over, the umpire, after the call of No ball and when 
the ball is dead, shall caution the bowler, inform the 
other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	
batsmen at the wicket of what has occurred. This 
caution shall apply throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.10 If there is a second instance of the bowler being  
No balled in the innings for bowling more than two 
fast short pitched deliveries in an over, the umpire 
shall	advise	the	bowler	that	this	is	his	final	warning	  
for the innings.
 41.6.1.11 Should there be any further instance by the same 
bowler in that innings, the umpire shall
 –  call and signal No ball
 –  when the ball is dead, direct the captain of the 
fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	immediately	
from bowling
 –  inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to 
bowl again in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another 
bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part of the 
previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the 
next over.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.74 4.75 The bowler’s end umpire shall then:
 –		warn	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side,	indicating	that	this	is	a	
first	and	final	warning.
 –  inform the batsmen of what has occurred.
 41.9.3 If either umpire considers that there is any further waste of time 
in	that	innings	by	any	fielder,	the	umpire	concerned	shall:
 –  if the ball is in play, call and signal Dead ball.
 –  inform the other umpire of what has occurred.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then award 5 Penalty runs to the 
batting	side	and	inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	
reason for this action.
  Additionally the umpire shall inform the batsmen and, as  
soon as is practicable, the captain of the batting side of what 
has occurred.
  If the umpires believe that the act of time wasting was 
deliberate or repetitive, they may lodge a report under the ICC 
Code of Conduct. In such circumstances the Captain and/or any 
individual	members	of	the	fielding	team	responsible	for	the	time	
wasting will be charged.
 41.10 Batsman wasting time
 41.10.1 It is unfair for a batsman to waste time. In normal circumstances, 
the striker should always be ready to take strike when the 
bowler is ready to start his run-up.
  In addition, an incoming batsman should be in position to take 
guard or his partner ready to receive the next ball within  
2 minutes of the fall of the previous wicket.
 41.10.2 Should either batsman waste time by failing to meet this 
requirement, or in any other way, the following procedure shall 
be	adopted.	At	the	first	instance,	either	before	the	bowler	starts	
his run-up or when the ball becomes dead, as appropriate, the 
umpire shall:
 –	warn	both	batsmen	and	indicate	that	this	is	a	first	and	final	
warning. This warning shall apply throughout the innings. The 
umpire shall so inform each incoming batsman.
 –  inform the other umpire of what has occurred.
 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
 41.10.3 If there is any further time wasting by any batsman in that innings, 
the umpire shall, at the appropriate time while the ball is dead:
 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
 –  inform the other umpire of the reason for this action.
 –		inform	the	other	batsman,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of 
what has occurred. 41.7.4 If the umpire considers that a bowler deliberately bowled a high 
full-pitched delivery, deemed to be dangerous and unfair as 
defined	in	clause	41.7.1,	then	the	caution	and	warning	in	clause	
41.7.1 shall be dispensed with. The umpire shall:
 –  immediately call and signal No ball.
 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling and inform 
the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again 
in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, 
who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over, 
nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.
 –  report the occurrence to the batsmen and, as soon as 
practicable, to the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the bowler concerned.
 41.8 Bowling of deliberate front-foot No ball
  If the umpire considers that the bowler has delivered a deliberate 
front-foot No ball, he/she shall:
 –  immediately call and signal No ball.
 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling.
 –  inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, who shall 
neither have bowled any part of the previous over, nor be allowed to 
bowl any part of the next over.
 –  report the occurrence to the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, to 
the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against 
the bowler concerned.
	 41.9	 Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	side
	 41.9.1	 It	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	to	waste	time.
 41.9.2 If either umpire considers that the progress of an over is 
unnecessarily slow, or time is being wasted in any other way, 
by	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	or	by	any	other	fielder,	at	the	
first	instance	the	umpire	concerned	shall:
 –  if the ball is in play, call and signal Dead ball.
 –  inform the other umpire of what has occurred.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.76 4.77 41.13.3 If, in that innings, the same bowler again contravenes this 
clause, the umpire shall repeat the above procedure indicating 
that	this	is	a	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	also	apply	
throughout the innings.
 41.13.4 If, in that innings, the same bowler contravenes this clause a 
third time, when the ball is dead, the umpire shall,
 –		direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	
immediately from bowling. If applicable, the over shall be 
completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled 
any part of the previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any 
part of the next over. The bowler taken off shall not be 
allowed to bowl again in that innings.
 –  inform the other umpire of the reason for this action.
 –  inform the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, the captain 
of the batting side of what has occurred.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the bowler concerned.
 41.14 Batsman damaging the pitch
 41.14.1 It is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch. 
If the striker enters the protected area in playing or playing 
at the ball, he must move from it immediately thereafter. A 
batsman will be deemed to be causing avoidable damage 
if either umpire considers that his presence on the pitch is 
without reasonable cause.
 41.14.2 If either batsman causes deliberate or avoidable damage to 
the	pitch,	other	than	as	in	clause	41.15,	at	the	first	instance	the	
umpire seeing the contravention shall, when the ball is dead, 
inform the other umpire of the occurrence. The bowler’s end 
umpire shall then:
 –  warn both batsmen that the practice is unfair and indicate 
that	this	is	a	first	and	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	apply	
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform each 
incoming batsman.
 –	inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what  
has occurred.
 41.14.3 If there is any further instance of avoidable damage to the 
pitch by any batsman in that innings, the umpire seeing the 
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall:
 –  disallow all runs to the batting side.
 –  return any not out batsman to his original end.
 –  signal No ball or Wide to the scorers if applicable.
 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.  If the umpires believe that the act of time wasting was deemed 
to be deliberate or repetitive, they may lodge a report under 
the ICC Code of Conduct. In such circumstances the batsman 
concerned will be charged.
 41.11 The protected area
	 	 The	protected	area	is	defined	as	that	area	of	the	pitch	contained	within	
a rectangle bounded at each end by imaginary lines parallel to the 
popping creases and 5 ft/1.52 m in front of each, and on the sides by 
imaginary lines, one each side of the imaginary line joining the centres 
of the two middle stumps, each parallel to it and 1 ft/30.48 cm from it.
 41.12 Fielder damaging the pitch
 41.12.1 It is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the 
pitch.	A	fielder	will	be	deemed	to	be	causing	avoidable	damage	
if either umpire considers that his presence on the pitch is 
without reasonable cause.
	 41.12.2	 If	a	fielder	causes	avoidable	damage	to	the	pitch,	other	than	
as	in	clause	41.13.1,	at	the	first	instance	the	umpire	seeing	the	
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire. The bowler’s end umpire shall then:
	 –		caution	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	indicate	that	this	
is	a	first	and	final	warning.	 This	warning	shall	apply	throughout	
the innings.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen	of	what	has	occurred.
 41.12.3 If, in that innings, there is any further instance of avoidable 
damage	to	the	pitch,	by	any	fielder,	the	umpire	seeing	the	
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire. The bowler’s end umpire shall then:
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
 Additionally the umpire shall
	 –		inform	the	fielding	captain	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	the	captain	
of the batting side of what has occurred.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate	against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.13 Bowler running on protected area
 41.13.1 It is unfair for a bowler to enter the protected area in his  
follow-through without reasonable cause, whether or not  
the ball is delivered.
	 41.13.2	 If	a	bowler	contravenes	this	clause,	at	the	first	instance	and	
when the ball is dead, the umpire shall:
	 –		caution	the	bowler	and	inform	the	other	umpire	of	what	has	
occurred. This caution shall apply to that bowler throughout 
the innings.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	batsmen	of	
what has occurred.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.78 4.79 41.16 Non-striker leaving his ground early
  If the non-striker is out of his ground from the moment the ball comes 
into play to the instant when the bowler would normally have been 
expected to release the ball, the bowler is permitted to attempt to run 
him out. Whether the attempt is successful or not, the ball shall not 
count as one in the over.
  If the bowler fails in an attempt to run out the non-striker, the umpire 
shall call and signal Dead ball as soon as possible.
 41.17 Batsmen stealing a run
 41.17.1 It is unfair for the batsmen to attempt to steal a run during the 
bowler’s run-up.
	 	 Unless	the	bowler	attempts	to	run	out	either	batsman	–	see	
clauses 41.16 and 21.4 (Bowler throwing towards striker’s end 
before	delivery)	–	the	umpire	shall:
	 –		call	and	signal	Dead	ball	as	soon	as	the	batsmen	cross	in	such	
an attempt.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then:
	 –		return	the	batsmen	to	their	original	ends.
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	
soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side, of the 
reason for this action.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the batsman concerned.
 41.18 Penalty runs
 41.18.1 When Penalty runs are awarded to either side, when the ball is 
dead the umpire shall signal the Penalty runs to the scorers. See 
clause 2.13 (Signals).
 41.18.2 Penalty runs shall be awarded in each case where these Playing 
Conditions require the award, even if a result has already been 
achieved. See clause 16.6 (Winning hit or extras).
  Note, however, that the restrictions on awarding Penalty runs, 
in clauses 23.3 (Leg byes not to be awarded), 34.4 (Runs scored 
from ball lawfully struck more than once) and 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side),	will	apply.
 41.18.3 When 5 Penalty runs are awarded to the batting side under 
any of clauses 24.4 (Player returning without permission), 28.2 
(Fielding the ball), 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the 
fielding	side)	or	under	41.3,	41.4,	41.5,	41.9	or	41.12,	then:
	 –		they	shall	be	scored	as	Penalty	extras	and	shall	be	in	addition	
to any other penalties. –  award any other 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for 
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side).
 –		Inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the  
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the batsman concerned.
 41.15 Striker in protected area
 41.15.1 The striker shall not adopt a stance in the protected area or so 
close to it that frequent encroachment is inevitable.
  The striker may mark a guard on the pitch provided that no 
mark is unreasonably close to the protected area.
 41.15.2 If either umpire considers that the striker is in breach of any of 
the conditions in clause 41.15.1, if the bowler has not entered 
the delivery stride, he/she shall immediately call Dead ball, 
otherwise, wait until the ball is dead; he/she shall then inform 
the other umpire of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then:
 –  warn the striker that the practice is unfair and indicate 
that	this	is	a	first	and	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	apply	
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform the 
non-striker and each incoming batsman.
 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	 
as practicable, the captain of the batting side of what  
has occurred.
 41.15.3 If there is any further breach of any of the conditions in clause 
41.15.1 by any batsman in that innings, the umpire seeing the 
contravention shall, if the bowler has not entered his delivery 
stride, immediately call and signal Dead ball, otherwise, he/she 
shall wait until the ball is dead and then inform the other umpire 
of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall:
 –  disallow all runs to the batting side.
 –  return any not out batsman to his original end.
 –  signal No ball or Wide to the scorers if applicable.
 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
 –  award any other 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for 
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side).
 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	practicable, 	
the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the batsman concerned.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.80 4.81 42.2.2 If such an offence is committed, 42.2.2.1 to 42.2.2.5 shall  
be implemented.
 42.2.2.1 The umpire shall call Time.
 42.2.2.2 Together the umpires shall summon and inform the 
offending player’s captain that an offence at this 
Level has occurred.
 42.2.2.3 The umpires shall instruct the captain to remove  
the	offending	player	immediately	from	the	field	of	
play for the remainder of the match and shall apply 
the following:
	 42.2.2.3.1	 If	the	offending	player	is	a	fielder,	no	
substitute shall be allowed for him. He 
is	to	be	recorded	as	Retired	–	out	at	the	
commencement of any subsequent innings 
in which his team is the batting side.
 42.2.2.3.2 If a bowler is suspended mid-over, then 
that over must be completed by a different 
bowler, who shall not have bowled the 
previous over nor shall be permitted to 
bowl the next over.
 42.2.2.3.3 If the offending player is a batsman he is to 
be	recorded	as	Retired	–	out	in	the	current	
innings, unless he has been dismissed 
under any of clauses 32 to 39, and at the 
commencement of any subsequent innings 
in which his team is the batting side. If no 
further batsman is available to bat, the 
innings is completed.
 42.2.2.4 As soon as practicable, the umpire shall:
 –  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing team
 –  signal the Level 4 penalty to the scorers
 –  call Play.
 42.2.2.5 The umpires shall then report the matter to the ICC 
Match Referee under the ICC Code of Conduct.
	 42.3	 Captain	refusing	to	remove	a	player	from	the	field
 42.3.1 If a captain refuses to carry out an instruction under 42.2.2.3,  
the umpires shall invoke clause 16.2 (ICC Match Referee 
awarding a match).
 42.3.2 If both captains refuse to carry out instructions under 42.2.2.3 
in respect of the same incident, the umpires shall instruct the 
players	to	leave	the	field.	The	match	is	not	concluded	as	in	
clause 12.6 and there shall be no result under clause 16.	 –		they	are	awarded	when	the	ball	is	dead	and	shall	not	
be regarded as runs scored from either the immediately 
preceding delivery or the immediately following delivery, and 
shall be in addition to any runs from those deliveries.
	 –		the	batsmen	shall	not	change	ends	solely	by	reason	of	the	 
5 run penalty.
	 41.18.4	 When	5	Penalty	runs	are	awarded	to	the	fielding	side,	under	
clause 18.5.2 (Deliberate short runs), or under 41.10, 41.14, 41.15 or 
41.17, they shall be added as Penalty extras to that side’s total of 
runs	in	its	most	recently	completed	innings.	If	the	fielding	side	
has not completed an innings, the 5 Penalty runs shall be added 
to the score in its next innings.
 42 PLAYERS’ CONDUCT
 42.1 Serious misconduct
 42.1.1 The umpires shall act upon any serious misconduct. The relevant 
offences and the corresponding actions by the umpires are 
identified	in	clause	42.2.1.	These	offences	correspond	with	
Level 4 offences in the ICC Code of Conduct. Level 1 to Level 
3 offences continue to be dealt with separately under the ICC 
Code of Conduct.
 42.1.2 If either umpire considers that a player has committed one 
of these offences at any time during the match, the umpire 
concerned shall call and signal Dead ball. This call may be 
delayed	until	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	it	will	not	disadvantage	
the non-offending side.
 42.1.3 The umpire concerned shall report the matter to the other umpire 
and together they shall decide whether an offence has been 
committed. The umpires may also consult with the third umpire 
and the match referee, who may review any audio or video 
replays	to	confirm	whether	an	offence	has	been	committed.	If	so, 	
the umpires shall then apply the related sanctions.
 42.1.4 If the offence is committed by a batsman, the umpires shall 
summon	the	offending	player’s	captain	to	the	field.	Solely	for	
the purpose of this clause, the batsmen at the wicket may not 
deputise for their captain.
 42.2 Level 4 offences and action by umpires
 42.2.1 Any of the following actions by a player shall constitute a Level 
4 offence:
 –  threatening to assault an umpire
 –  making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with  
an umpire
 –  physically assaulting a player or any other person
 –  committing any other act of violence.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.82 4.83APPENDICES TO ICC  
ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL  
MATCH PLAYING CONDITIONS
(INCORPORATING THE 2017 CODE OF THE MCC LAWS OF CRICKET)
A.	 Definitions
B. Equipment
 1. The bat
 2. The wickets
 3. Wicket-keeping gloves
C. The venue
 1. The pitch and the creases
 2. Advertising on grounds, perimeter boards and sight-screens
 3. Markings	on	outfield
D. Decision Review System (DRS) and Third Umpire Protocol
E. Calculations 42.4 Additional points relating to Level 4 offences
 42.4.1 If a player, while acting as wicket-keeper, commits a Level 
4 offence, clause 24.1.2 shall not apply, meaning that only a 
nominated	player	may	keep	wicket,	even	if	another	fielder	
becomes injured or ill and is replaced by a substitute.
 42.4.2 A nominated player who has a substitute will also suffer the 
penalty for any Level 4 offence committed by the substitute. 
However, only the substitute will be reported under clause 42.2.2.5.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.84 4.85 2.3 A protective helmet is headwear made of hard material and designed 
to protect the head or the face or both, which shall (in line with the 
Clothing	and	Equipment	Regulations)	be	certified	to	BS7928:2013.	
For the purposes of interpreting these Playing Conditions, such a 
description will include faceguards.
 2.4 Equipment	–	a	batsman’s	equipment	is	his	bat	as	defined	above,	
together with any external protective equipment he is wearing.
	 	 A	fielder’s	equipment	is	any	external	protective	equipment	that	he	  
is wearing.
 2.5 The bat	–	the	following	are	to	be	considered	as	part	of	the	bat:
 – the whole of the bat itself.
 – the whole of a glove (or gloves) worn on the hand (or hands) holding 
the bat.
 – the hand (or hands) holding the bat, if the batsman is not wearing a 
glove on that hand or on those hands.
 2.6 Held in batsman’s hand. Contact between a batsman’s hand, or glove 
worn on his hand, and any part of the bat shall constitute the bat being 
held in that hand.
 3 THE PLAYING AREA
 3.1 The	field	of	play is the area contained within the boundary.
 3.2 The square is	a	specially	prepared	area	of	the	field	of	play	within	which	
the match pitch is situated.
 3.3 The	outfield	is	that	part	of	the	field	of	play	between	the	square	and	  
the boundary.
 4 POSITIONING
 4.1 Behind the popping crease	at	one	end	of	the	pitch	is	that	area	of	the	field 	
of play, including any other marking, objects and persons therein, that is 
on that side of the popping crease that does not include the creases at the 
opposite end of the pitch. Behind, in relation to any other marking, object 
or person, follows the same principle. See the diagram in paragraph 13. 
 4.2 In front of the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area 
of	the	field	of	play,	including	any	other	marking,	objects	and	persons	
therein, that is on that side of the popping crease that includes the 
creases at the opposite end of the pitch. In front of, in relation to any 
other marking, object or person, follows the same principle. See the 
diagram in paragraph 13.
 4.3 The striker’s end is the place where the striker stands to receive a 
delivery	from	the	bowler	only	insofar	as	it	identifies,	independently	of	
where the striker may subsequently move, one end of the pitch. 
 4.4 The bowler’s end is the end from which the bowler delivers the ball. It is 
the	other	end	of	the	pitch	from	the	striker’s	end	and	identifies	that	end	
of the pitch that is not the striker’s end as described in paragraph 4.3. 
 4.5 The wicket-keeper’s end is the same as the striker’s end as described in 
paragraph 4.3.APPENDIX A
DEFINITIONS
 1 THE MATCH
 1.1 The game is used in these Playing Conditions as a general term meaning 
the Game of Cricket. 
 1.2 A match is a single One Day International between two teams, played 
under these Playing Conditions.
 1.3 ODI is an abbreviation for One Day International.
 1.4 The toss is the toss for choice of innings.
 1.5 Before the toss is at any time before the toss on the day the match is 
expected to start.
 1.6 Before the match is at any time before the toss, not restricted to the 
day of the match.
 1.7 During the match is at any time after the toss until the conclusion of 
the match, whether play is in progress or not.
 1.8 Playing time is any time between the call of Play and the call of Time. 
See clauses 12.1 (Call of Play) and 12.2 (Call of Time). 
 1.9 Conduct of the match includes any action relevant to the match at any time.
 1.10 Ground Authority is the entity responsible for the selection and 
preparation of the pitch and other functions relating to the hosting and 
management of the match, including any agents acting on their behalf 
(including but not limited to the curator or other ground staff).
 1.11 Home Board is the ICC member responsible for the home team and the 
hosting of the match.
 1.12 Visiting Board is the ICC member responsible for the visiting team.
 1.13 A Reserve Day is, where scheduled, an additional day for the 
completion of the match.
 1.14 The Spirit of Cricket refers to the values of respect and fair play that underpin 
the game of cricket, as set out in the Preamble to these Playing Conditions.
 1.15 The ICC Code of Conduct is the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and 
Player Support Personnel, as amended from time to time.
 2 IMPLEMENTS AND EQUIPMENT
 2.1 Implements used in the match are the bat, the ball, the stumps and bails.
 2.2 External protective equipment is any visible item of apparel worn for 
protection against external blows.
  For a batsman, items permitted are a protective helmet, external leg 
guards (batting pads), batting gloves and, if visible, forearm guards.
	 	 For	a	fielder,	only	a	protective	helmet	is	permitted,	except	in	the	case	of	
a wicket-keeper, for whom wicket-keeping pads and gloves are  
also permitted.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.86 4.87 5.10 Soft Signal is the visual communication by the bowler’s end umpire to 
the third umpire (accompanied by additional information via two-way 
radio	where	necessary)	of	his/her	initial	on-field	decision	prior	to	
initiating an Umpire Review.
 5.11 Umpire’s Call	is	the	concept	within	the	DRS	under	which	the	on-field	
decision of the bowler’s end umpire shall stand, which shall apply 
under	the	specific	circumstances	set	out	in	paragraphs	3.4.5	and	3.4.6	of	
Appendix D, where the ball-tracking technology indicates a marginal 
decision in respect of either the Impact Zone or the Wicket Zone.
 5.12 The Pitching Zone as used in the DRS is a two dimensional area on the 
pitch between both sets of stumps with its boundaries consisting of the 
base of both sets of stumps and a line between the outside of the outer 
stumps at each end.
 5.13 The Impact Zone as used in the DRS is a three dimensional space 
extending	 between	 both	sets	of	stumps	to	an	indefinite	 height	vertically	
and with its boundaries consisting of the base of the stumps and the 
outside of the outer stumps at each end.
 5.14 The Wicket Zone as used in the DRS is a two dimensional area with its 
boundaries consisting of the outside of the outer stumps, the base of 
the stumps, and the lower edge of the bails.
 5.15 A Fair Catch	is	a	catch	that	has	been	taken	cleanly	by	the	fielder	in	
accordance with clause 33.
 5.16 A Bump Ball is where the ball has made contact with the ground shortly 
after making contact with the striker’s bat.
 5.17 The Elite Panel	is	the	group	of	umpires	contracted	to	the	ICC	to	officiate	
in international cricket. 
 5.18 The International Panel is the group of umpires nominated by the ICC’s 
full members in accordance with clause 2.1.3 of the Playing Conditions.
 6 BATSMEN
 6.1 Batting side is the side currently batting, whether or not play is in progress.
 6.2 Member of the batting side is one of the players nominated by the 
captain of the batting side, or any authorised replacement for such 
nominated player.
 6.3 A batsman’s ground	–	at	each	end	of	the	pitch,	the	whole	area	of	the	field 	
of play behind the popping crease is the ground at that end for a batsman.
 6.4 Original end is the end where a batsman was when the ball came into 
play for that delivery.
 6.5 Wicket he has left is the wicket at the end where a batsman was at the 
start of the run in progress.
 6.6 Guard position is the position and posture adopted by the striker to 
receive a ball delivered by the bowler
 6.7		 For	the	purposes	of	these	Playing	Conditions,	waist	height	is	defined	
as the point at which the top of the batsman’s trousers would 
conventionally be when he is standing upright at the popping crease. 4.6 In front of the line of the striker’s wicket	is	in	the	area	of	the	field	of	
play in front of the imaginary line joining the fronts of the stumps at the 
striker’s end; this line to be considered extended in both directions to 
the boundary. See paragraph 4.2.
 4.7 Behind the wicket	is	in	the	area	of	the	field	of	play	behind	the	
imaginary line joining the backs of the stumps at the appropriate end; 
this line to be considered extended in both directions to the boundary. 
See paragraph 4.1.
 4.8 Behind the wicket-keeper is behind the wicket at the striker’s end,  
as	defined	above,	but	in	line	with	both	sets	of	stumps	and	further	from	
the stumps than the wicket-keeper.
 4.9 Off side/on (leg) side	–	see	diagram	in	paragraph	13.
 4.10 Inside edge is the edge on the same side as the nearer wicket. 
 5 UMPIRES AND DECISION-MAKING
 5.1 Umpire	–	where	the	description	the umpire is used on its own, it 
always	means	‘the	bowler’s	end	umpire’	though	this	full	description	is	
sometimes used for emphasis or clarity. Similarly the umpires always 
means both umpires and the third umpire. An umpire and umpires are 
generalised terms. Otherwise, a fuller description indicates which one 
of	the	umpires	is	specifically	intended.	Each	umpire	will	be	bowler’s	end	
umpire and striker’s end umpire in alternate overs. 
 5.2 Bowler’s end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the bowler’s end 
(see paragraph 4.4) for the current delivery.
 5.3 Striker’s end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the striker’s end 
(see paragraph 4.3), to one side of the pitch or the other, depending on 
his/her choice, for the current delivery. 
 5.4 On-field	umpires	shall mean, collectively, the bowler’s end umpire and 
the striker’s end umpire.
 5.5 Third umpire is the umpire who may use television evidence and other 
available	technology	in	order	review	a	decision	of	the	on-field	umpires,	
either by way of an Umpire Review or a Player Review under the 
protocol set out in Appendix D.
 5.6 Umpires together agree applies to decisions which the umpires are to 
make jointly, independently of the players.
 5.7 Decision Review System or DRS is the process covered by the Decision 
Review System and Third Umpire Protocol set out in Appendix D, under 
which the third umpire may be consulted in relation to a decision of the 
on-field	umpires,	either	by	way	of	an	Umpire	Review	or	a	Player	Review.
 5.8 Player Review is the process set out in Appendix D by which a player 
may	request	a	review	of	any	decision	taken	by	the	on-field	umpires	
concerning whether or not a batsman is dismissed (with the exception 
of	‘Timed	out’).
 5.9 Umpire Review is the process set out in Appendix D by which an 
on-field	umpire	has	the	discretion	to	refer	a	decision	to	the	third	umpire	
or, under certain circumstances, to consult with the third umpire before 
making a decision.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.88 4.89 9.4 The Illegal Bowling Regulations are the ICC’s regulations governing 
Illegal Bowling Actions.
 9.5 An Illegal Bowling Action is a bowling action where a bowler’s Elbow 
Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured from the point at which the 
bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the point at which the ball 
is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for the 
purposes of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).
 9.6 Elbow Extension means the motion that occurs when a bowler’s arm 
moves	from	a	flexed	(bent)	position	at	the	elbow,	to	a	more	extended	
(straight) position (full Elbow Extension occurs when the arm is straight).
 9.7 Elbow Hyperextension is the motion that occurs when a bowler’s 
elbow extends beyond the straight position.
 9.8 The ICC Bowling Action Report Form is the form provided for by Article 
3 of the Illegal Bowling Regulations, by which an umpire and/or the 
ICC Match Referee may submit a report relating to a suspected Illegal 
Bowling Action.
 10 THE BALL
 10.1 The ball is struck/strikes the ball unless	specifically	defined	otherwise,	
mean	‘the	ball	is	struck	by	the	bat’/‘strikes	the	ball	with	the	bat’.
 10.2 Rebounds directly/strikes directly	and	similar	phrases	mean	‘without	
contact	with	any	fielder’	but	do	not	exclude	contact	with	the	ground.
 10.3 Full-pitch describes a ball delivered by the bowler that reaches or 
passes the striker without having touched the ground. Sometimes 
described as non-pitching.
 11 RUNS
 11.1 A run to be disallowed is one that in these Playing Conditions should 
not have been taken. It is not only to be cancelled but the batsmen are 
to be returned to their original ends. 
 11.2 A run not to be scored is one that is not illegal, but is not recognised 
as a properly executed run. It is not a run that has been made, so the 
question of cancellation does not arise. The loss of the run so attempted 
is not a disallowance and the batsmen will not be returned to their 
original ends on that account. 
 12 THE PERSON
 12.1 Person;	A	player’s	person	is	his	physical	person	(flesh	and	blood)	
together with any clothing or legitimate external protective equipment 
that he is wearing except, in the case of a batsman, his bat.
  A hand, whether gloved or not, that is not holding the bat is part of the 
batsman’s person.
  No item of clothing or equipment is part of the player’s person unless it 
is attached to him.
  For a batsman, a glove being held but not worn is part of his person.
	 	 For	a	fielder,	an	item	of	clothing	or	equipment	he	is	holding	in	his	hand	
or hands is not part of his person. 7 FIELDERS
 7.1 Fielding side	is	the	side	currently	fielding,	whether	or	not	play	is	in	progress.
 7.2 Member	of	the	fielding	side is one of the players nominated by the 
captain	of	the	fielding	side,	or	any	authorised	replacement	or	substitute	
for such nominated player. 
 7.3 Fielder is one of the 11 or fewer players who together represent the 
fielding	side	on	the	field	of	play.	This	definition	includes	not	only	both	
the bowler and the wicket-keeper but also nominated players who 
are	legitimately	on	the	field	of	play,	together	with	players	legitimately	
acting as substitutes for absent nominated players. It excludes any 
nominated	player	who	is	absent	from	the	field	of	play,	or	who	has	been	
absent	from	the	field	of	play	and	who	has	not	yet	obtained	the	umpire’s	
permission to return. 
	 	 A	player	going	briefly	outside	the	boundary	in	the	course	of	discharging	
his	duties	as	a	fielder	is	not	absent	from	the	field	of	play	nor,	for	the	
purposes	of	clause	24.2	(Fielder	absent	or	leaving	the	field	of	play),	is	he	
to	be	regarded	as	having	left	the	field	of	play.
 8 SUBSTITUTES AND CONCUSSION REPLACEMENTS
 8.1 A Substitute	is	a	player	who	takes	the	place	of	a	fielder	on	the	field	of	play, 	
but does not replace the player for whom he substitutes on that side’s list 
of	nominated	players.	A	substitute’s	activities	are	limited	to	fielding.
 8.2 A Concussion Replacement is a player who takes the place of a player 
who has been replaced in accordance with the process set out in clause 
1.2.7, and who for the remainder of the match replaces that player on that 
side’s list of nominated players, being able to take a full part in the match 
(subject to such restrictions as may be imposed by the ICC Match Referee in 
accordance with clause 1.2.7.4
 8.3  A Concussion Replacement Request is	the	notification	made	to	the	ICC 	
Match Referee in accordance with the process set out in clause 1.2.7.3
 8.4  The Team Medical Representative is the individual designated as having 
responsibility for the assessment of any head or neck injury sustained by a 
player as set out in clause 1.2.7.2
 9 BOWLERS
 9.1 Over the wicket/round the wicket –	If,	as	the	bowler	runs	up	between	
the wicket and the return crease, the wicket is on the same side as his 
bowling arm, he is bowling over the wicket. If the return crease is on the 
same side as his bowling arm, he is bowling round the wicket.
 9.2 Delivery swing is the motion of the bowler’s arm during which he 
normally releases the ball for a delivery.
 9.3 Delivery stride is the stride during which the delivery swing is made, 
whether the ball is released or not. It starts when the bowler’s back foot 
lands for that stride and ends when the front foot lands in the same 
stride. The stride after the delivery stride is completed when the next 
foot lands, i.e. when the back foot of the delivery stride lands again.
 ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.90 4.91 13 OFF SIDE/ON SIDE; IN FRONT OF/  
BEHIND THE POPPING CREASE
  12.2 Clothing	–	anything	that	a	player	is	wearing,	including	such	items	
as spectacles or jewellery, that is not classed as external protective 
equipment is classed as clothing, even though he may be wearing 
some items of apparel, which are not visible, for protection. A bat being 
carried	by	a	batsman	does	not	come	within	this	definition	of	clothing.
 12.3 Hand for batsman or wicket-keeper shall include both the hand itself 
and the whole of a glove worn on the hand.
Behind the 
popping crease
Off side
In front of the 
popping crease
Off sideBehind the 
popping crease
On side (leg side)
In front of the 
popping crease
On side (leg side)WICKET-KEEPER
UMPIREBOWLERRight-handed strikerICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.92 4.93	 1.3	 Specifications	for	the	Blade
 1.3.1 The blade has a face, a back, a toe, sides and shoulders:
 1.3.1.1 The face of the blade is its main striking surface and shall be 
flat	or	have	a	slight	convex	curve	resulting	from	traditional 	
pressing techniques. The back is the opposite surface.
 1.3.1.2 The shoulders, sides and toe are the remaining surfaces, 
separating the face and the back.
 1.3.1.3 The shoulders, one on each side of the handle, are along 
that	portion	of	the	blade	between	the	first	entry	point	of	
the	handle	and	the	point	at	which	the	blade	first	reaches	
its full width.
 1.3.1.4 The toe is the surface opposite to the shoulders taken as 
a pair.
 1.3.1.5 The sides, one each side of the blade, are along the rest 
of the blade, between the toe and the shoulders.
 1.3.2 No material may be placed on or inserted into the blade other 
than as permitted in paragraph 1.2.4, paragraph 1.3.3, and clause 
5.4 together with the minimal adhesives or adhesive tape used 
solely	for	fixing	these	items,	or	for	fixing	the	handle	to	the	blade.
 1.3.3 Covering the blade. Bats shall have no covering on the blade 
except as permitted in clause 5.4. 
  Any materials referred to above, in clause 5.4 and paragraph 1.4 
below, are to be considered as part of the bat, which must still 
pass	through	the	gauge	as	defined	in	paragraph	1.6.
 1.4 Protection and repair 
 1.4.1 The surface of the blade may be treated with non-solid materials 
to improve resistance to moisture penetration and/or mask 
natural blemishes in the appearance of the wood. Save for the 
purpose of giving a homogeneous appearance by masking 
natural blemishes, such treatment shall not materially alter the 
colour of the blade. 
 1.4.2 Materials can be used for protection and repair as stated in clause 
5.4 and are additional to the blade. Note however clause 5.6.
  Any such material shall not extend over any part of the back of 
the blade except in the case of clause 5.4.1 and then only when it 
is applied as a continuous wrapping covering the damaged area.
  The repair material shall not extend along the length of the blade 
more than 0.79 in/2.0 cm in each direction beyond the limits of 
the damaged area. Where used as a continuous binding, any 
overlapping shall not breach the maximum of 0.04 in/0.1 cm in 
total thickness.
  The use of non-solid material which when dry forms a hard layer 
more than 0.004 in/0.01 cm in thickness is not permitted.APPENDIX B
EQUIPMENT
 1 THE BAT
 1.1 General guidance
 1.1.1 Measurements – All provisions in paragraphs 1.2 to 1.6 below 
are subject to the measurements and restrictions stated in the 
Playing Conditions and this Appendix.
 1.1.2 Adhesives	–	Throughout,	adhesives	are	permitted	only	where	
essential and only in minimal quantity.
	 1.2	 Specifications	for	the	Handle
 1.2.1 One end of the handle is inserted into a recess in the blade as a 
means of joining the handle and the blade.
  This lower portion is used purely for joining the blade and 
the handle together. It is not part of the blade but, solely in 
interpreting paragraphs 1.3 and 1.4 below, references to the blade 
shall be considered to extend also to this lower portion of the 
handle where relevant.
 1.2.2 The handle may be glued where necessary and bound with twine 
along the upper portion. 
  Providing clause 5.5 is not contravened, the upper portion may 
be covered with materials solely to provide a surface suitable for 
gripping. Such covering is an addition and is not part of the bat, 
except in relation to clause 5.6. The bottom of this grip should not 
extend	below	the	point	defined	in	paragraph	1.2.4	below.
  Twine binding and the covering grip may extend beyond the 
junction of the upper and lower portions of the handle, to cover 
part	of	the	shoulders	of	the	bat	as	defined	in	paragraph	1.3.1.
  No material may be placed on or inserted into the lower portion 
of the handle other than as permitted above together with the 
minimal	adhesives	or	adhesive	tape	used	solely	for	fixing	these	
items,	or	for	fixing	the	handle	to	the	blade.
 1.2.3 Materials in handle	–	As	a	proportion	of	the	total	volume	of	the	
handle, materials other than cane, wood or twine are restricted 
to one-tenth. Such materials must not project more than 3.25 
in/8.26 cm into the lower portion of the handle
 1.2.4 Binding and covering of handle –	The	permitted	continuation	
beyond the junction of the upper and lower portions of the 
handle is restricted to a maximum, measured along the length  
of the handle, of:
  2.5 in/6.35 cm in for the twine binding
  2.75 in/6.99 cm for the covering grip.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.94 4.95 2 THE WICKETS
 2.1 Bails
  Overall 4.31 in/10.95 cm
  a = 1.38 in/3.50 cm
  b = 2.13 in/5.40 cm
  c = 0.81 in/2.06 cm
 2.2 Stumps
  Height (d) = 28 in/71.1 cm
  Diameter (e) – maximum = 1.5 in/3.81 cm; minimum = 1.38 in/3.50 cm
 2.3 Overall
  Width (f) of wicket 9 in/22.86 cm 1.4.3 Permitted coverings, repair material and toe guards, not 
exceeding	their	specified	thicknesses,	may	be	additional	to	the	
dimensions above, but the bat must still pass through the gauge 
as described in paragraph 1.6.
	 1.5	 Commercial	identifications	
	 	 Such	identifications	shall	comply	with	the	restrictions	set	out	in	the	
Clothing and Equipment Regulations in relation to the size and position 
of marks and logos.
 1.6 Bat Gauge
	 	 All	bats	must	meet	the	specifications	defined	in	clause	5.7.	They	must	
also, with or without protective coverings permitted in clause 5.4, be 
able to pass through a bat gauge, the dimensions and shape of which 
are shown in the following diagram:
  DIMENSIONS OF APERTURE
  Total Depth: 2.68 in/6.8 cm
  Width: 4.33 in/11.0 cm
  Edge: 1.61 in/4.1 cm
  Curve: 0.20 in/0.5 cm
  Note: The curve of the lower edge of the aperture is an arc of a circle  
of radius 12.0 in/30.5 cm, whose centre is on the vertical centre line of 
the aperture.e e edb ba a c c
Depth 6.8cmEdge
4.1cmWidth 11.0cm
0.5cmICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.96 4.97APPENDIX C
THE VENUE
 1 THE PITCH AND THE CREASES
  3 WICKET-KEEPING GLOVES
 3.1 The images below illustrate the requirements of clause 27.2 in relation to:
	 •	 no	webbing	between	the	fingers;
	 •	 a	single	piece	of	non-stretch	material	between	finger	and	thumb	as	a	
means of support; and
 • when a hand wearing the glove has the thumb fully extended, the 
top edge being taut and not protruding beyond the straight line 
joining	the	top	of	the	index	finger	to	the	top	of	the	thumb.
 3.2 Note also the requirement for wicket-keeping gloves to comply with 
the Clothing and Equipment Regulations in relation to the size and 
position of marks and logos.
5ft/1.52m
Minimum
15 yards/13.71mProtected Area
Indicators
Popping
CreaseReturn
Crease
Return
CreaseBowling
Crease
Protected
Area
Indicators
Minimum
8ft/2.44m9in/22.86cm4ft/1.22cm
8ft 8in 
/2.64m1ft
30.48cm
22yds/20.12m17in/43.18cmWide
Guidelines
ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.98 4.99 3 ADVERTISING ON GROUNDS, PERIMETER BOARDS  
AND SIGHT-SCREENS
 3.1 Advertising on grounds
	 3.1.1	 The	logos	on	outfields	are	to	be	positioned	as	follows:	
	 a)	 Behind	the	stumps	–	a	minimum	of	25.15	yards	(23	meters)	
from the stumps. 
	 b)	 Midwicket/cover	area	–	no	advertising	to	be	positioned	
within 30 yards (27.50 meters) of the centre of the pitch 
being used for the match. 
 3.1.2 Note: Advertising closer to the stumps as set out above which 
is required to meet 3D requirements for broadcasters may be 
permitted, subject to prior ICC approval having been obtained. 
 3.2 Perimeter boards
 3.2.1 Advertising on perimeter boards placed in front of the sight-
screens is permitted save that the predominant colour of such 
advertising shall be of a contrasting colour to that of the ball. 
 3.2.2 Advertising on perimeter boards behind the stumps at both ends 
shall	not	contain	moving,	flashing	or	flickering	images	and	operators 	
should ensure that the images are only changed or moved at a time 
that will not be distracting to the players or the umpires. 
 3.2.3 The brightness of any electronic images shall be set at a level so 
that it is not a distraction to the players or umpires.
 3.3 Sight-screens 
 3.3.1 Sight-screens shall be provided at both ends of all grounds.
 3.3.2 Advertising shall be permitted on the sight-screen behind the 
striker, providing it is removed for the subsequent over from  
that end.
	 3.3.3	 Such	advertising	shall	not	contain	flashing	or	flickering	images	
and particular care should be taken by the operators that the 
advertising is not changed at a time which is distracting to  
the umpire.
 4 MARKINGS ON OUTFIELD
 With the permission of the Ground Authority, a bowler may use paint to make 
a	small	marking	on	the	outfield	for	the	purposes	of	identifying	their	run-up.	
Paint used for this purpose shall be any colour other than white. 2 RESTRICTION ON THE PLACEMENT OF FIELDERS
Continuous white line, or dots
at 5 yard (4.5 metre) intervals
30 yard (27.5 metre) radiusfrom middle of stump
30 yard (27.5 metre) radiusfrom middle of stumpICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.100 4.101 1.1.6 The table below summarises the minimum requirements for DRS 
to be used, and the regulations around the appointment of the 
third umpire:
THIRD UMPIRE (NON-DRS) DRS
Minimum 
RequirementCameras	Specification	
detailed in paragraph 1.1.2.Cameras
–	Specification	detailed	
in paragraph 1.1.2. 
Technology.
–	Approved	ball-tracking	
technology.
–	Approved	
sound-based edge 
detection technology.
Third Umpire 
AppointmentAppointed by Home Board.
From the home country. 
From ICC Elite Panel  
or International Panel  
of umpires.Appointed by the ICC.
Not from the same 
country as either of the 
participating teams.
From ICC Elite Panel  
or International Panel  
of umpires.
Third Umpire 
JurisdictionUmpire Reviews only. Umpire Reviews and 
Player Reviews.
Replays that 
can be usedThe third umpire shall only 
have access to replays of 
any camera images. Other 
technology which may be 
in use by the broadcaster 
for broadcast purposes 
(for example, ball-tracking 
technology, sound-based 
edge detection technology, 
and heat-based edge 
detection technology)  
shall not be used during 
Umpire Reviews.Any replay, stump 
microphone audio or 
technology detailed in 
paragraph 3.8.1 below.
ICC Technical 
OfficerNot required. The ICC shall appoint an 
independent technology 
expert (ICC Technical 
Officer)	to	be	present	
at every series in which 
the DRS is used to assist 
the third umpire and to 
protect the integrity of 
the DRS process.
 1.1.7 The Home Board shall ensure that a separate room is provided 
for the third umpire and that he/she has access to the television 
equipment and technology (where DRS is used) so as to be in 
the best position to facilitate the referral and/or consultation 
processes referred to in paragraphs 2 (Umpire Review) and 3 
(Player Review) below.APPENDIX D
DECISION REVIEW SYSTEM (DRS)  
AND THIRD UMPIRE PROTOCOL
 1 GENERAL
 1.1 Minimum requirements for use of DRS and appointment  
of third umpire:
 1.1.1 Save with the express written consent of the ICC General 
Manager – Cricket, the Home Board shall ensure the live 
television broadcast of all ODI matches played in its country.
	 1.1.2	 Where	matches	are	broadcast,	the	camera	specification	set	out	
below shall be mandatory as a minimum requirement.
 
	 1.1.3	 Where	the	camera	specification	set	out	above	is	provided,	a	third	
umpire shall be appointed to the match.
 1.1.4 The provisions of paragraphs 1.1.1, 1.1.2, and 1.1.3 above shall not 
apply for matches between a Full Member country and Associate 
Member countries (whose matches have been granted ODI status) 
and for matches between such Associate Member countries.
	 1.1.5	 If	the	minimum	requirements	for	DRS	to	be	used	are	satisfied,	both 	
participating Boards may agree to employ the DRS for an ODI. 
Otherwise, the third umpire shall be appointed and empowered to 
use broadcast replays to make decisions that are referred to him/
her in accordance with paragraph 2 (Umpire Reviews).Run Out Camera 1
Run Out Camera 2Run Out Camera 3
Run Out Camera 4Ball Follow 1
Ball Follow 2ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.102 4.103 2.2 Caught Decisions, Obstructing the Field
 2.2.1 Where the bowler’s end umpire is unable to decide upon a Fair 
Catch	or	a	Bump	Ball,	or	if,	on	appeal	from	the	fielding	side,	the	
batsman	obstructed	the	field,	he/she	shall	first	consult	with	the	
striker’s end umpire.
	 2.2.2	 Should	both	on-field	umpires	require	assistance	from	the	third	
umpire	to	make	a	decision,	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	shall	firstly	
take	a	decision	on-field	after	consulting	with	the	striker’s	end	
umpire, before consulting by two-way radio with the third 
umpire. Such consultation shall be initiated by the bowler’s end 
umpire to the third umpire by making the shape of a TV screen 
with his/her hands, followed by a Soft Signal of Out or Not out 
made with the hands close to the chest at chest height. If the 
third umpire advises that the replay evidence is inconclusive, the 
on-field	decision	communicated	at	the	start	of	the	consultation	
process shall stand.
 2.2.3 The third umpire shall determine whether the batsman has been 
caught, whether the delivery was a Bump Ball, or if the batsman 
obstructed	the	field.	However,	in	reviewing	the	television	
replay(s),	the	third	umpire	shall	first	check	the	fairness	of	the	
delivery for all decisions involving a catch (all modes of No ball 
except for the bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action, subject to 
the proviso that the third umpire may review whether the bowler 
has	used	a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	
Illegal Bowling Regulations) and whether the batsman has hit the 
ball. If the delivery was not a fair delivery or if it is clear to the 
third umpire that the batsman did not hit the ball he/she shall 
indicate to the bowler’s end umpire that the batsman is Not out 
caught, and in the case of an unfair delivery, advise the bowler’s 
end umpire to signal No ball. See also paragraph 2.5 below. 
Additionally, if it is clear to the third umpire that the batsman is 
Out by another mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), or Not out by 
any mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), he/she shall notify the 
bowler’s end umpire so that the correct decision can be made.
 2.2.4 The third umpire shall communicate his/her decision as set out in 
paragraph 2.1.5.
 2.3 Boundary Decisions
 2.3.1 The bowler’s end umpire shall be entitled to refer to the third 
umpire for a decision on:
 2.3.1.1 whether a four or six has been scored;
	 2.3.1.2	 whether	a	fielder	had	any	part	of	his	person	in	contact	
with the ball when he touched the boundary; or
	 2.3.1.3	 whether	the	fielder	had	any	part	of	his	person	in	contact	
with the ball when he had any part of his person 
grounded beyond the boundary.
 2.3.2 A decision shall be made immediately and cannot be  
changed thereafter. 2 UMPIRE REVIEW
 In the circumstances detailed in paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4 below, the 
on-field	umpire	shall	have	the	discretion	to	refer	the	decision	to	the	third	
umpire or, in the case of paragraphs 2.2, and 2.4, to consult with the third 
umpire before making the decision.
 Save for requesting the umpire to review his/her decision under paragraph 3 
(Player	Review)	below,	players	may	not	appeal	to	the	on-field	umpires	to	use	
the Umpire Review. Breach of this provision may constitute dissent and the 
player may be subject to disciplinary action under the ICC Code of Conduct 
for Players and Player Support Personnel.
 2.1 Run Out, Stumped, Bowled and Hit Wicket Decisions
	 2.1.1	 The	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	be	entitled	to	refer	an	appeal	
for run-out, stumped, bowled or hit wicket to the third umpire.
	 2.1.2	 An	on-field	umpire	wishing	to	refer	a	decision	to	the	third	umpire	
shall signal to the third umpire by making the shape of a TV 
screen with his/her hands.
 2.1.3 In the case of a referral of a bowled, hit wicket or stumped 
decision,	the	third	umpire	shall	first	check	the	fairness	of	the	
delivery (all modes of No ball except for the bowler using an 
Illegal Bowling Action, subject to the proviso that the third 
umpire may review whether the bowler has used a prohibited 
Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	Bowling	
Regulations). If the delivery was not a fair delivery the third 
umpire shall indicate that the batsman is Not out and advise the 
on-field	umpire	to	signal	No	ball.	See	also	paragraph	2.5	below.
	 2.1.4	 Additionally,	if	the	third	umpire	finds	the	batsman	is	Out	by	
another mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), or Not out by any 
mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), he/she shall notify the 
on-field	umpire	so	that	the	correct	decision	is	made.
 2.1.5 If the third umpire decides that the batsman is Out, a red light 
shall be displayed; if the third umpire decides that the batsman is 
Not out, a green light shall be displayed. Should the third umpire 
be temporarily unable to respond, a white light (where available) 
shall remain illuminated throughout the period of interruption 
to	signify	to	the	on-field	umpires	that	Umpire	Reviews	are	
temporarily unavailable, in which case the decision shall be taken 
by	the	on-field	umpire.	As	an	alternative	to	the	red/green	light	
system, the replay screen (where available) may be used for the 
purpose of conveying the third umpire’s decision, in line with the 
ICC Big Screen Policy.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.104 4.105 2.6 Cameras On or Over the Field of Play
	 2.6.1	 The	on-field	umpires	shall	be	entitled	to	refer	to	the	third	umpire	
for a decision as to whether the ball has at any time during the 
normal course of play come into contact with any part of the 
camera, its apparatus or its cables above the playing area, as 
contemplated in clause 20.1.3.
	 2.6.2	 Where	an	on-field	umpire	wishes	to	use	the	assistance	of	the	
third umpire in this circumstance, he/she shall communicate with 
the third umpire by use of a two-way radio and the third umpire 
shall convey his/her decision to the bowler’s end umpire by the 
same method.
 2.6.3 A decision shall be made immediately and cannot be changed 
thereafter. If the television evidence is inconclusive as to whether 
or not the ball has come into contact with any part of the camera, 
its apparatus or its cables above the playing area, the default 
presumption shall be in favour of no contact having been made.
	 2.6.4	 The	third	umpire	may	initiate	contact	with	the	on-field	umpire	
by two-way radio if TV coverage shows the ball to have been 
in contact with any part of the camera or its cables above the 
playing area as envisaged under this paragraph.
 3 PLAYER REVIEW
 The following paragraphs shall operate in addition to and in conjunction with 
paragraph 2 (Umpire Review).
 3.1 Circumstances in which a Player Review may be requested
 3.1.1 A player may request a review of any decision taken by the 
on-field	umpires	concerning	whether	or	not	a	batsman	is	
dismissed,	with	the	exception	of	‘Timed	Out’	(Player	Review).
 3.1.2 No other decisions made by the umpires are eligible for a Player 
Review with the exception of Fair Catch/Bump Ball (even after the 
third umpire has been consulted and the decision communicated).
 3.1.3 Only the batsman involved in a dismissal may request a Player 
Review of an Out decision and only the captain (or acting 
captain)	of	the	fielding	team	may	request	a	Player	Review	of	a	
Not out decision.
 3.1.4 A decision concerning whether or not a batsman is dismissed that 
could have been the subject of a Umpire Review under paragraph 
2 is eligible for a Player Review as soon as it is clear that the 
on-field	umpire	has	chosen	not	to	initiate	the	Umpire	Review.
 3.2 The manner of requesting the Player Review
	 3.2.1	 The	request	shall	be	made	by	the	player	making	a	‘T’	sign	with	
both forearms at head height.
 3.2.2 The total time elapsed between the ball becoming dead and the 
review request being made shall be no more than 15 seconds. 
The only exception permitted shall be when an Umpire Review 
for Fair Catch or Bump Ball (as permitted in paragraph 2.2 above) 
is required to answer an appeal for a caught decision, in which 
case either team is able to request a Player Review of that caught  2.3.3 If the television evidence is inconclusive as to whether or not a 
boundary has been scored, the default presumption shall be in 
favour of no boundary being awarded.
 2.3.4 Where the bowler’s end umpire wishes to use the assistance of 
the third umpire in this circumstance, he/she shall communicate 
with the third umpire by use of a two-way radio and the third 
umpire shall convey his decision to the bowler’s end umpire by 
the same method.
	 2.3.5	 The	third	umpire	may	initiate	contact	with	the	on-field	umpire	
by two-way radio if TV coverage shows a boundary line 
infringement or incident that appears not to have been acted 
upon	by	the	on-field	umpires.
 2.4 Batsmen Running to the Same End
	 2.4.1	 Where	both	batsmen	have	run	to	the	same	end	and	the	on-field	
umpires	are	uncertain	over	which	batsman	made	his	ground	first,	
the	on-field	umpires	may	consult	with	the	third	umpire.
 2.4.2 The procedure set out in paragraph 2.3.4 shall apply.
 2.5 No Balls
 2.5.1 If the bowler’s end umpire is uncertain as to the fairness of the 
delivery following a dismissal, either affecting the validity of the 
dismissal or which batsman is dismissed, he/she shall be entitled 
to	request	the	batsman	to	delay	leaving	the	field	and	to	check	
the fairness of the delivery with the third umpire. Communication 
with the third umpire shall be by two-way radio.
 2.5.2 The third umpire shall check all modes of No ball except for the 
bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action (subject to the proviso 
that the third umpire may review whether the bowler has used 
a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	
Bowling Regulations). The third umpire shall apply clause 21.5 
when deciding whether a No ball should have been called (and 
must	therefore	be	satisfied	that	none	of	the	three	conditions	in	
clause 21.5 have been met before calling a No ball).
 2.5.3 If the delivery was not a fair delivery, the bowler’s end umpire 
shall indicate that the batsman is Not out and signal No ball 
(except	in	the	case	of	a	dismissal	for	obstructing	the	field,	which	
may still be effected despite a No ball being called, in which case 
the bowler’s end umpire shall indicate that the relevant batsman 
is Out and additionally call a No ball).
 2.5.4 If a No ball is called following the check by the third umpire, the 
batting	side	shall	benefit	from	the	reversal	of	the	dismissal	and	
the	one	run	for	the	No	ball,	but	shall	not	benefit	from	any	runs	
that may subsequently have accrued from the delivery had the 
on-field	umpire	originally	called	a	No	ball.	Where	the	batsmen	
crossed while the ball was in the air before being caught, the 
batsmen shall remain at the same ends as if the striker had been 
dismissed, but no runs shall be credited to the striker even if one 
(or more) runs were completed prior to the catch being taken.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.106 4.107 3.3.3 A two-way consultation process shall begin to investigate 
whether there is anything that the third umpire can see or hear 
which	would	indicate	that	the	on-field	umpire	should	change	his/
her original decision.
 3.3.4 The third umpire shall not withhold any factual information 
which may help in the decision making process. In particular, 
in reviewing a dismissal, if the third umpire believes that the 
batsman may instead be Out by any other mode of dismissal, he/
she	shall	advise	the	on-field	umpire	accordingly.	The	process	of	
consultation described in this paragraph in respect of such other 
mode of dismissal shall then be conducted as if the batsman has 
been given Not out.
 3.3.5 The third umpire shall initially check all modes of No ball except 
for the bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action (subject to the 
proviso that the third umpire may review whether the bowler has 
used	a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	
Bowling	Regulations),	where	appropriate	advising	the	on-field	
umpire accordingly.
 3.3.6 If despite the available technology, the third umpire is unable 
to	decide	with	a	high	degree	of	confidence	whether	the	original	
on-field	decision	should	be	changed,	then	he/she	shall	report	
that	the	replays	are	‘inconclusive’,	and	that	the	on-field	decision	
shall stand. The third umpire shall not give answers conveying 
likelihoods or probabilities.
 3.3.7 In circumstances where the television technology (all or parts 
thereof) is not available to the third umpire or fails for whatever 
reason,	the	third	umpire	shall	advise	the	on-field	umpire	of	this	
fact but still provide any relevant factual information that  
may be ascertained from the available television replays and 
other technology.
	 3.3.8	 The	on-field	umpire	shall	then	make	his/her	decision	based	on	
the information provided by the third umpire, any other factual 
information offered by the third umpire and his/her recollection 
and opinion of the original incident.
	 3.3.9	 The	on-field	umpire	shall	reverse	his/her	decision	if	the	nature	 
of the supplementary information received from the third umpire 
leads him/her to conclude that his/her original decision  
was incorrect.
 3.4 Review of LBW Decisions
 3.4.1 In assessing whether a batsman is Out LBW in accordance with 
clause	36,	the	third	umpire	shall	first	judge	whether	the	delivery	
is fair (as set out in clause 36.1.1), and second, whether or not the 
ball has touched the bat before being intercepted by any part of 
the striker’s person (as set out in clause 36.1.3).decision within 15 seconds of the decision being communicated. 
The bowler’s end umpire shall provide the relevant player with 
a prompt after 10 seconds if the request has not been made at 
that time and the player shall request the review immediately 
thereafter.	If	the	on-field	umpires	believe	that	a	request	has	not	
been made within the 15 second time limit, they shall decline the 
request for a Player Review.
	 3.2.3	 The	captain	may	consult	with	the	bowler	and	other	fielders,	and	
the two batsmen may consult with each other prior to deciding 
whether to request a Player Review. Under no circumstances 
is any player permitted to query an umpire about any aspect 
of a decision before deciding on whether or not to request a 
Player	Review.	If	the	on-field	umpires	believe	that	the	captain	or	
either batsman has received direct or indirect input emanating 
other	than	from	the	players	on	the	field,	then	they	may	at	their	
discretion decline the request for a Player Review. In particular, 
signals from the dressing room must not be given.
 3.2.4 No replays, either at normal speed or slow motion, shall be 
shown on a big screen to spectators until the 15 second time limit 
allowed for requesting a Player Review has elapsed. The only 
exception to this provision is where a Player Review of a caught 
decision is requested after the Umpire Review of a Fair Catch or 
Bump Ball has concluded, as detailed in paragraph 3.2.2 above 
(due to the fact that replays may have been shown on the big 
screen during that Umpire Review process).
	 3.2.5	 Where	either	on-field	umpire	initiates	an	Umpire	Review,	this	
does not preclude a player seeking a Player Review of a separate 
incident from the same delivery. The request for a Player Review 
may be made after the Umpire Review, provided the request is 
still within the 15 second time limit described in paragraph 3.2.2 
above. (See paragraphs 3.9.2 and 3.9.3 below for the process for 
addressing both an Umpire and Player Review).
 3.2.6 A request for a Player Review cannot be withdrawn once it has 
been made.
 3.3 The process of consultation
 3.3.1 On receipt of an eligible and timely request for a Player Review, 
the	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	make	the	sign	of	a	shape	of	a	
TV screen with his/her hands in the normal way.
	 3.3.2	 The	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	initiate	communication	with	
the	third	umpire	by	confirming;
 3.3.2.1 That a Player Review has been requested,
	 3.3.2.2	 The	mode	of	dismissal	for	which	the	relevant	on-field	
umpire adjudicated the appeal,
 3.3.2.3 The decision that has been made (Out or Not out), and;
 3.3.2.4 For LBW appeals, where relevant, if the bowler’s end 
umpire believed that the striker made no genuine attempt 
to play the ball with the bat (the default presumption of 
the third umpire in the absence of any information on 
this point from the bowler’s end umpire shall be that a 
genuine attempt to play the ball with the bat was made).ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.108 4.109 3.4.5 IMPACT
	 3.4.5.1	 The	interpretation	of	“the	(first)	point	of	impact,	even	
if in above the level of the bails, is between wicket and 
wicket” in clause 36.1.4 shall refer to the position of the 
ball	at	the	point	of	first	interception,	in	relation	to	the	
Impact Zone.
	 3.4.5.2	 The	Impact	Zone	is	defined	as	a	three	dimensional	space	
extending	between	both	wickets	to	an	indefinite	height	
and with its boundaries consisting of a line between the 
outside of the outer stumps at each end.
 3.4.5.3 The ball-tracking technology shall report that the 
point	of	first	interception	was	in	one	of	the	following	
categories in relation to the Impact Zone:
In Line The centre of the ball was inside the Impact Zone.
Umpire’s 
CallSome part of the ball was inside the Impact 
Zone, but the centre of the ball was outside the 
Impact Zone, with the further sub-category of 
‘Umpire’s	Call	(off	side)’	where	the	centre	of	the	
ball was to the off side of the Impact Zone and 
the bowler’s end umpire communicates to the 
third umpire that no genuine attempt to play 
the ball was made by the batsman.
Outside No part of the ball was inside the Impact Zone, 
with	the	further	sub-categories	of	‘Outside	
(off)’	and	‘Outside	(leg)’	to	indicate	the	location	
of	the	point	of	first	interception	in	relation	to	
the Impact Zone when the bowler’s end umpire 
communicates to the third umpire that no 
genuine attempt to play the ball was made by 
the batsman.
 3.4.5.4 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made a genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	In	Line	for	the	
batsman to be eligible to be given Out, otherwise the 
batsman shall remain Not out.
 3.4.5.5 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made no genuine attempt 
to play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that the point of impact was In Line, or Umpire’s Call (off 
side), or Outside (off) for the batsman to be eligible to be 
given Out, otherwise the batsman shall remain Not out.
 3.4.5.6 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made a genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	Outside	for	
the decision to be reversed to Not out, otherwise the 
batsman shall remain eligible to be given Out. 3.4.2 If the batsman is still eligible to be Out, the ball-tracking 
technology shall then present three pieces of information to the 
third umpire relating to the path of the ball:
 3.4.2.1 The point of pitching (where applicable) (PITCHING).
	 3.4.2.2	 The	position	of	the	ball	at	the	point	of	first.	 
interception (IMPACT).
 3.4.2.3 Whether the ball would have hit the wicket (WICKET).
 3.4.3 This Decision Review System (DRS) and Third Umpire Protocol 
includes a category of Umpire’s Call, which shall be the 
conclusion reported where the technology indicates a marginal 
decision	in	respect	of	either	the	point	of	first	interception	or	
whether the ball would have hit the stumps.
 3.4.4 PITCHING
 3.4.4.1 The interpretation of “pitches in line between wicket and 
wicket” in clause 36.1.2 shall refer to the position of the 
centre of the ball at the point of pitching, in relation to 
the Pitching Zone.
	 3.4.4.2	 The	Pitching	Zone	is	defined	as	a	two	dimensional	area	
on the pitch between both sets of stumps with its 
boundaries consisting of the base of both sets of stumps 
and a line between the outside of the outer stumps at 
each end.
 3.4.4.3 Where applicable, the ball-tracking technology shall 
report that the ball pitched in one of the following three 
areas in relation to the Pitching Zone:
In Line The centre of the ball was inside the  
Pitching Zone
Outside Off The centre of the ball was outside, and to  
the off side of, the Pitching Zone
Outside Leg The centre of the ball was outside, and to  
the leg side of, the Pitching Zone
 3.4.4.4 Subject to the satisfaction of the other elements of 
clause 36, the batsman can be Out if the ball-tracking 
technology reports that the ball pitched Outside Off 
or In Line, but the batsman shall be Not out if the ball 
pitched Outside Leg.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.110 4.111 3.4.8 With regard to determining whether the ball would have hit the 
wicket under these circumstances, the ball-tracking technology 
shall project the line of the ball in accordance with clause 36.2.3 
(it is to be assumed that the path of the ball before interception 
would have continued after interception, irrespective of whether 
the ball might have pitched subsequently or not), and display the 
simulated path of the ball from directly above the wicket.
 3.4.9 The third umpire shall advise the bowler’s end umpire only on 
the	point	of	first	interception	and	whether	the	ball	would	have	
hit the stumps (in line with the process set out in paragraph 3.4 
above), but shall make no comment on the predicted height 
of the ball after pitching, which shall remain a judgment of the 
bowler’s end umpire.
	 3.5	 The	process	for	communicating	the	final	decision
 3.5.1 For Player Reviews concerning potential dismissals, the relevant 
on-field	umpire	shall	indicate	Out	by	raising	his/her	finger	above	
his/her head in a normal yet prominent manner or indicate Not 
out	by	the	call	of	‘not	out’	and	by	crossing	his/her	hands	in	a	
horizontal position side to side in front and above his/her waist 
three	times.	Where	the	decision	is	a	reversal	of	the	on-field	
umpire’s	previous	decision,	he/she	shall	make	the	‘revoke	last	
signal’ indication immediately prior to the above.
 3.5.2 If the mode of dismissal is not obvious or not the same as that 
on which the original decision was based, then the umpire shall 
advise the scorers via the third umpire.
 3.6 Number of Player Review requests permitted
 3.6.1 In each innings, each team shall be allowed to make a maximum 
of	one	Player	Review	request	that	is	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	
(as set out in paragraph 3.6.3 below).
 3.6.2 Where a request for a Player Review results in the original 
on-field	decision	being	reversed,	then	the	Player	Review	shall	
be	categorised	as	‘Successful’	and	shall	not	count	towards	the	
innings limit.
 3.6.3 Where a request for a Player Review results in the original 
on-field	decision	remaining	unchanged	(other	than	in	the	
circumstances set out in paragraphs 3.6.4, 3.6.6 or 3.6.8), the Player 
Review shall be categorised as ’Unsuccessful’.
 3.6.4 Where a request for a Player Review of an LBW decision results 
in	the	on-field	decision	remaining	unchanged	solely	on	the	basis	
of an Umpire’s Call, the Player Review shall be categorised as 
‘Unchanged	–	Umpire’s	Call’.	A	Player	Review	categorised	as	
‘Unchanged	–	Umpire’s	Call’	shall	not	count	towards	the	innings	
limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
 3.6.5 Where, following a request for a Player Review, the original 
on-field	decision	of	Out	is	unchanged,	but	for	a	different	mode	
of	dismissal	from	the	original	on-field	decision,	then	the	Player	
Review shall still be categorised as ’Unsuccessful’. 3.4.5.7 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made no genuine attempt 
to play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	Outside	(leg)	for	
the decision to be reversed to Not out, otherwise the 
batsman shall remain eligible to be given Out.
 3.4.6 WICKET
 3.4.6.1 The interpretation of whether “the ball would have hit 
the wicket” in clause 36.1.5 shall refer to position of the 
ball as it either hits or passes the wicket, in relation to 
the Wicket Zone.
	 3.4.6.2	 The	Wicket	Zone	is	defined	as	a	two	dimensional	area	
whose boundaries are the outside of the outer stumps, 
the base of the stumps and the bottom of the bails.
 3.4.6.3 The ball-tracking technology shall report whether the 
ball would have hit the wicket with reference to the 
following three categories:
Hitting The ball was hitting the wicket, and the centre  
of the ball was inside the Wicket Zone.
Umpire’s 
CallThe ball was hitting the wicket, but the centre 
of the ball was not inside the Wicket Zone.
Missing The ball was missing the wicket.
 3.4.6.4 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, the ball-
tracking technology must report that the ball was Hitting 
for the batsman to be eligible to be given Out, otherwise 
the batsman shall remain Not out.
  However, where the evidence shows that the ball was 
Hitting,	the	point	of	first	interception	was	In	Line,	and	
the ball pitched In Line or Outside Off, but that:
	 •	 The	point	of	first	interception	was	300cm	or	more	
from the stumps; or
	 •	 The	point	of	first	interception	was	more	than	250cm	
but less than 300cm from the stumps and the distance 
between	the	point	of	pitching	and	the	point	of	first	
interception was less than 40cm,
	 	 the	on-field	decision	shall	stand	(that	is,	Not	out).
 3.4.6.5 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, the 
ball-tracking technology must report that the ball was 
Missing	for	the	on-field	decision	to	be	reversed	to	Not	
out, otherwise the batsman shall remain eligible to be 
given Out.
 3.4.7 When the ball strikes the batsman on the full, and the evidence 
provided by the ball-tracking technology indicates that the ball 
would have pitched before striking or passing the wicket, there 
will be no information available from that delivery that will allow 
the ball-tracking technology to accurately predict the height of 
the ball after pitching.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.112 4.113 3.7 Dead ball
 3.7.1 If following a Player Review request, an original decision of 
Out is changed to Not out, then the ball is still deemed to have 
become dead when the original decision was made (as per clause 
20.1.1.3).	The	batting	side,	while	benefiting	from	the	reversal	of	the	
dismissal,	shall	not	benefit	from	any	runs	that	may	subsequently	
have	accrued	from	the	delivery	had	the	on-field	umpire	originally	
made a Not out decision, other than any No ball penalty that 
could arise under paragraph 3.3.5 above.
 3.7.2 If an original decision of Not out is changed to Out, the ball 
shall retrospectively be deemed to have become dead from the 
moment of the dismissal event. All subsequent events, including 
any runs scored, shall be ignored.
 3.8 Use of technology
 3.8.1 The following technology may be used by the third umpire during 
a Player Review:
 3.8.1.1 Replays, at any speed, from any available broadcast camera
 3.8.1.2 Sound from the stump microphones with the replays at 
normal speed and slow motion
 3.8.1.3 Approved ball-tracking technology: 
 • HawkEye (HawkEye Innovations), or;
 • VirtualEye (ARL)
 3.8.1.4 Approved sound-based edge detection technology:
 • Real-Time Snickometer (BBG Sports), or;
 • UltraEdge (HawkEye Innovations)
 3.8.1.5 Approved heat-based edge detection technology:
 • Hot Spot cameras (BBG Sports)
 3.8.1.6 LED Wickets (using the lights to indicate if the wicket is 
broken, as set out in paragraph 4.2):
 • Zing Bails and Stumps
 3.8.2 In addition, other forms of technology may be used subject to 
the	ICC	being	satisfied	that	the	required	standards	of	accuracy	
and	time	efficiency	can	be	met.
 3.8.3 Where practical usage or further testing indicates that any of the 
above forms of technology cannot reliably provide accurate and 
timely information, then it may be removed prior to or during a 
match.	The	final	decision	regarding	the	technology	to	be	used	
in a given match shall be taken by the ICC Match Referee in 
consultation	with	the	ICC	Technical	Official,	ICC	management	and	
the competing teams’ governing bodies. 3.6.6 Where, following a request for a Player Review, the original 
on-field	decision	of	Not	out	is	unchanged	on	account	of	the	
delivery being a No ball (for any reason), thereby not requiring 
any further evaluation, the Player Review shall not be counted 
as	‘Unsuccessful’	and	accordingly	shall	not	count	towards	the	
innings limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
 3.6.7 Where a Player Review and an Umpire Review are requested 
from the same delivery and the decision of the third umpire from 
the Umpire Review renders the Player Review unnecessary (see 
paragraphs 3.9.2 and 3.9.3), the Player Review request shall be 
disregarded and accordingly shall not count towards the innings 
limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
	 3.6.8	 A	Player	Review	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	may	be	reinstated	
by the ICC Match Referee at his/her sole discretion (if appropriate 
after	consultation	with	the	ICC	Technical	Official	and/or	the	
television broadcast director) if the Player Review could not 
properly be concluded due to a failure of the technology. Any 
such	decision	shall	be	final	and	shall	be	taken	as	soon	as	possible,	
being communicated to both teams once all the relevant facts 
have been ascertained by the ICC Match Referee. A Player Review 
categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	shall	not	be	reinstated	if,	despite	
any technical failures, the correct decision could still have been 
made using the other available technology. Similarly, a Player 
Review	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	shall	not	be	reinstated	
where the technology worked as intended, but the evidence 
gleaned from its use was inconclusive.
 3.6.9 The third umpire shall be responsible for counting the number 
Player	Reviews	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	and	shall	advise	the	
on-field	umpires	once	either	team	has	exhausted	their	allowance	
for the innings.
 3.6.10 The scoreboard shall display, for the innings in progress, the 
number of Player Reviews remaining available to each team.
CATEGORY OF 
PLAYER REVIEWOUTCOME  
OF PLAYER 
REVIEW CONSEQUENCE OF 
PLAYER REVIEW
Successful  
(paragraph 3.6.2)On-field	decision	
reversed Does not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
Unsuccessful 
(paragraphs 3.6.3  
and 3.6.5)On-field	decision	
unchangedCounts towards  
innings limit set out  
in paragraph 3.6.1
Unchanged	–	
Umpire’s Call 
(paragraph 3.6.4)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
No	ball	–	no	
evaluation required 
(paragraph 3.6.6)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
Failure of technology 
(paragraph 3.6.8)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04 04
4.114 4.115APPENDIX E
CALCULATIONS
Table 1: Calculation sheet for use when a delay or interruptions occur  
in the First Innings 
Time 
Net playing time available at start of the match  420 minutes  (A) 
Time innings in progress  ___________  (B) 
Playing time lost  ___________  (C) 
Extra time available  ___________  (D) 
Time made up from reduced interval  ___________  (E) 
Effective	playing	time	lost	[C	–	(D	+	E)]		 ___________		 (F)	
Remaining playing time available (A - F)  ___________  (G) 
G divided by 4.2 (to 2 decimal places)  ___________  (H) 
Max	overs	per	team	[H/2]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________		(	I	)	
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[I/5]		 ___________	
Duration of Powerplay Overs  ___________ + ___________ 
(initial, batting side) 
Rescheduled Playing Hours 
First session to commence or recommence  ___________  ( J ) 
Length	of	innings	[I	x	4.2]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________	 (K)	
Rescheduled	first	innings	cessation	time	[J	+	(K	–	B)]		 ___________	 (L)	
Length of interval  ___________ (M) 
Second	innings	commencement	time	[L	+	M]		 ___________	 (N)	
Rescheduled	second	innings	cessation	time	[N	+	K]		 ___________	*(O)	
*	Ensure	that	the	match	is	not	finishing	earlier	than	the	original	or	rescheduled	
cessation time by applying clause 13.7.2. If so, add at least one over to each team 
and recalculate (I) to (O) above to prevent this from happening.  3.9 Combining Umpire Review with Player Review
 3.9.1 If an Umpire Review (under paragraph 2) and a request for a 
Player Review (under paragraph 3) are made following the 
same delivery but relating to separate modes of dismissal, the 
following process shall apply.
 3.9.2 The Umpire Review shall be carried out prior to the Player Review 
if all of the following conditions apply:
	 3.9.2.1	 The	Player	Review	has	been	requested	by	the	fielding	side.
 3.9.2.2 The Umpire Review and the Player Review both relate to 
the dismissal of the same batsman.
 3.9.2.3 If the batsman is out, the number of runs scored from the 
delivery would be the same for both modes of dismissal.
 3.9.2.4 If the batsman is out, the batsman on strike for the next 
delivery would be the same for both modes of dismissal.
 3.9.3 If the Umpire Review leads the third umpire to make a decision 
of Out, then this shall be displayed in the usual manner and the 
Player Review shall not be undertaken. If the Umpire Review 
results in a Not out decision, then the third umpire shall make 
no public decision but shall proceed to address the request for a 
Player Review.
 3.9.4 For illustration, following an LBW appeal which is given Not out 
by the bowler’s end umpire, the striker sets off for a run, is sent 
back and there is an appeal for his run out. The players request 
that the LBW decision is reviewed and the umpires request that 
the	run	out	be	reviewed.	The	four	criteria	above	are	satisfied,	so	
the	run	out	referral	is	determined	first.	Should	the	appeal	for	run	
out be Out, then there is no requirement for the LBW review to 
take place.
 3.9.5 In all other circumstances, the incidents shall be addressed in 
chronological	order.	If	the	conclusion	from	the	first	incident	is	
that a batsman is dismissed, then the ball would be deemed to 
have become dead at that point, rendering investigation of the 
second incident unnecessary.
 4 INTERPRETATION OF PLAYING CONDITIONS
 4.1 When using a replay to determine the moment at which the wicket has 
been put down (as per clause 29.1), the third umpire shall deem this to 
be	the	first	frame	in	which	one	of	the	bails	is	shown	(or	can	be	deduced)	
to have lost all contact with the top of the stumps and subsequent 
frames show the bail permanently removed from the top of the stumps.
 4.2 Where LED Wickets are used (as provided for in paragraph 3.8.1.6) 
the moment at which the wicket has been put down (as per clause 
29.1)	shall	be	deemed	to	be	the	first	frame	in	which	the	LED	lights	are	
illuminated and subsequent frames show the bail permanently removed 
from the top of the stumps.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS04
4.116
04ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS
Table 2: Calculation sheet to check whether an interruption during the First 
Innings should terminate the innings 
Proposed re-start time ___________  (P) 
Rescheduled cut-off time allowing for full use  
of any extra time provision  ___________  (Q) 
Minutes between P and Q  ___________  (R) 
Potential	overs	to	be	bowled	[R/4.2]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________		(S)	
Number	of	complete	overs	faced	to	date	in	first	innings		 ___________		(T)	
If S is greater than T then revert to Table 1 
If	S	is	less	than	or	equal	to	T	then	the	first	innings	is	terminated	–	go	to	Table	3	
Table 3: Calculation sheet for the start of the Second Innings 
Maximum overs to be bowled: 
(If	first	innings	was	terminated,	S	from	Table	2)		 ___________	(A)	
Scheduled	length	of	innings:	[A	x	4.2]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________	(B)	
Start time  ___________ (C) 
Scheduled	cessation	time	[C	+	B]		 ___________	(D)	
Overs per bowler and fielding restrictions 
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[A/5]	 ___________		overs	
Duration of Powerplay overs  ___________ + ___________  overs 
(initial, batting side) 
1.117Table 4: Calculation sheet for use when interruption occurs  
after the start of the Second Innings 
Time 
Time at start of innings  ___________ (A) 
Time at start of interruption  ___________ (B) 
Time innings in progress  ___________ (C) 
Restart time  ___________ (D) 
Length	of	interruption	[D	–	B]		 ___________	(E)	
Additional time available: ___________ (F) 
(Any	unused	provision	for	‘Extra	Time’	 
or for earlier than scheduled start of second innings)  
Total	playing	time	lost	[E	–	F]		 ___________	(G)	
Overs 
Maximum overs at start of innings  ___________ (H) 
Overs	lost	[G/4.2]	(rounded	down)		 ___________	(I)	
Adjusted	maximum	length	of	innings	[H	–	I]		 ___________	(J)	
Rescheduled	length	of	innings	[J	x	4.2	rounded	up]		 ___________	(K)	
Amended	cessation	time	of	innings	[D	+	(K	–	C)]		 ___________	(L)	
Overs per bowler and Fielding Restrictions 
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[J/5]	 ___________	overs
Duration of Powerplay overs  ___________ + ___________  overs 
(initial, batting side) ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS04
4.118
APPENDIX G
USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
The use of electronic communication devices and equipment of any kind to 
communicate	with	players	on	the	field	of	play	shall	not	be	permitted.ICC MEN’S ONE DAY INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 04
4.119APPENDIX F
APPLICATION OF THE RESERVE DAY
The hours of play on the Reserve Day shall be the same as on the scheduled day for 
the match (including the extra time provision). 
If play is interrupted on the scheduled day, the umpires shall use the available extra 
time and, if necessary, reduce the number of overs to try to achieve a result on that day. 
Each team must have had the opportunity to bat for a minimum of 20 overs for a 
result to be achieved. If play has not resumed by the cut-off time required to allow 
the minimum number of overs to be bowled to achieve a result on the scheduled 
day, play shall be abandoned for the day and the Reserve Day shall be used to 
complete the match. 
On the Reserve Day, play shall recommence under the same assumption that the 
last ball was bowled on the scheduled day. 
The match starts when the coin toss takes place and teams are exchanged. If the 
toss occurs on the scheduled day and there is no play thereafter, the result of the 
toss and the named teams shall be carried through to the Reserve Day. 
In making their decisions in relation to ground, weather and light, the umpires shall 
aim to maximize play on the scheduled day of the match in order to achieve a result 
on that day, as if there was no Reserve Day available. 
The treatment of the pitch on the Reserve Day by the Ground Authority shall be  
as follows:
•	 Covering	and	removal	of	covers	–	as	for	the	scheduled	day	of	the	match	under	
clause 10 of the Playing Conditions; and
•	 Mowing	and	rolling	–	as	for	Day	2	of	a	Test	Match,	under	clause	9	of	the	ICC	Test	
Match Playing Conditions. 
Example 1: Match starts at 50 overs per side and there is an interruption at 19 
overs. Overs are reduced to 46 overs per side and play is about to resume. Before 
another ball is bowled it rains and play is abandoned for the day. As the match did 
not resume under the revised overs, the match should continue on the Reserve 
Day at the original 50 overs per side with the overs reduced if necessary during the 
Reserve Day. 
Example 2: The same start as in example 1 i.e. match starts at 50 overs per side and 
there is an interruption at 19 overs. Overs are reduced to 46 overs per side and play 
is about to resume. This time, play starts and after an over has been bowled it rains 
and play is abandoned for the day. As the match has resumed, it is continued on the 
Reserve Day at 46 overs per side with the overs further reduced if necessary during 
the Reserve Day.05
ICC MEN’S  
TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
Effective from 1 August 2019
5.1CONTENTS
1  THE PLAYERS 5.3
2  THE UMPIRES 5.6
3  THE SCORERS 5.11
4  THE BALL 5.11
5  THE BAT  5.12
6  THE PITCH 5.14
7  THE CREASES 5.16
8  THE WICKETS 5.17
9  PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PLAYING AREA 5.18
10  COVERING THE PITCH 5.20
11  INTERVALS 5.20
12  START OF PLAY; CESSATION OF PLAY 5.21
13  INNINGS  5.23
14  THE FOLLOW-ON 5.27
15  DECLARATION AND FORFEITURE 5.27
16  THE RESULT 5.27
17  THE OVER 5.30
18  SCORING RUNS 5.31
19  BOUNDARIES 5.35
20  DEAD BALL 5.37
21  NO BALL 5.39
22  WIDE BALL 5.43
23  BYE AND LEG BYE 5.44
24  FIELDER’S ABSENCE; SUBSTITUTES 5.46
25  BATSMAN’S INNINGS 5.48
26  PRACTICE ON THE FIELD 5.49
27  THE WICKET-KEEPER 5.50
28  THE FIELDER 5.52
29  THE WICKET IS DOWN 5.55
30  BATSMAN OUT OF HIS GROUND 5.56
31  APPEALS 5.57
32  BOWLED 5.58
33  CAUGHT 5.58
34  HIT THE BALL TWICE 5.60
35  HIT WICKET 5.61
36  LEG BEFORE WICKET 5.61
37  OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD 5.62
38  RUN OUT 5.63ICC MEN’S  
TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL  
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS05
5.2
PREAMBLE  
THE SPIRIT OF CRICKET
Cricket owes much of its appeal and enjoyment to the fact that it should be played 
not only according to the Laws (which are incorporated within these Playing 
Conditions), but also within the Spirit of Cricket. 
The major responsibility for ensuring fair play rests with the captains, but extends to all 
players,	match	officials	and,	especially	in	junior	cricket,	teachers,	coaches	and	parents.
Respect is central to the Spirit of Cricket.
Respect your captain, team-mates, opponents and the authority of the umpires.
Play hard and play fair.
Accept the umpire’s decision.
Create a positive atmosphere by your own conduct, and encourage others  
to do likewise.
Show self-discipline, even when things go against you.
Congratulate the opposition on their successes, and enjoy those of your own team.
Thank	the	officials	and	your	opposition	at	the	end	of	the	match,	whatever	the	result.
Cricket is an exciting game that encourages leadership, friendship and teamwork, 
which brings together people from different nationalities, cultures and religions, 
especially when played within the Spirit of Cricket.
 1 THE PLAYERS
 1.1 Number of players
  A match is played between two sides, each of eleven players, one of 
whom shall be captain.
 1.2 Nomination and replacement of players
 1.2.1 Each captain shall nominate 11 players plus a maximum of 4 
substitute	fielders	in	writing	to	the	ICC	Match	Referee	before	the 	
toss. Other than set out in clause 1.2.7, no player (member of the 
playing eleven) may be changed after the nomination without the 
consent of the opposing captain.
	 1.2.2	 Only	those	nominated	as	substitute	fielders	shall	be	entitled	to 	
act	as	substitute	fielders	during	the	match,	unless	the	ICC	Match 	
Referee, in exceptional circumstances, allows subsequent additions.
 1.2.3 All those nominated including those nominated as substitute 
fielders,	as	well	as	any	Concussion	Replacements,	must	be	eligible	to 	
play for that particular team and by such nomination the nominees 
shall warrant that they are so eligible.
 1.2.4 In addition, by their nomination, the nominees shall be deemed 
to have agreed to abide by all the applicable ICC Regulations 
pertaining to international cricket and in particular, the Clothing 
and Equipment Regulations, the Code of Conduct for Players and 
Player Support Personnel (hereafter referred to as the ICC Code 
of Conduct), the Anti-Racism Code for Players and Player Support 
Personnel, the Anti-Doping Code and the Anti-Corruption Code.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05
5.339  STUMPED 5.64
40  TIMED OUT 5.65
41  UNFAIR PLAY 5.65
42  PLAYERS’ CONDUCT 5.78
APPENDIX A DEFINITIONS 5.82
1  The match 5.82
2  Implements and equipment 5.82
3  The playing area 5.83
4  Positioning 5.83
5  Umpires and decision-making 5.84
6  Batsmen 5.85
7  Fielders 5.86
8  Substitutes 5.86
9  Bowlers 5.86
10  The ball 5.87
11  Runs 5.87
12  The person 5.87
13  Off side / on side; in front of / behind the popping crease 5.89
APPENDIX B EQUIPMENT 5.90
1  The Bat 5.90
2  The wickets 5.93
3  Wicket-keeping gloves 5.94
APPENDIX C THE VENUE 5.95
1  The pitch and the creases 5.95
2		 Restriction	on	the	placement	of	fielders	 5.96
3  Advertising on grounds, perimeter boards and sight-screens 5.97
4		 Markings	on	outfield	 5.97
APPENDIX D DECISION REVIEW SYSTEM (DRS) 
AND THIRD UMPIRE PROTOCOL 5.98
1  General 5.98
2  Umpire Review 5.100
3  Player Review 5.103
4  Interpretation of Playing Conditions 5.112
APPENDIX E CALCULATIONS 5.113
APPENDIX F PROCEDURE FOR THE SUPER OVER 5.116
APPENDIX G USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT 5.119ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.4 5.5 1.2.8  The ICC Match Referee should ordinarily approve a Concussion 
Replacement Request if the replacement is a like-for-like player 
whose inclusion will not excessively advantage his team for the 
remainder of the match.
 1.2.8.1  In assessing whether the nominated Concussion 
Replacement should be considered a like-for-like 
player, the ICC Match Referee should consider the likely 
role the concussed player would have played during 
the remainder of the match, and the normal role that 
would be performed by the nominated Concussion 
Replacement.
 1.2.8.2  If the ICC Match Referee believes that the inclusion 
of the nominated Concussion Replacement, when 
performing their normal role, would excessively 
advantage their team, the Match Referee may impose 
such conditions upon the identity and involvement of 
the	Concussion	Replacement	as	he/she	sees	fit,	in	line	
with the overriding objective of facilitating a like-for-like 
replacement for the concussed player.
 1.2.8.3  The ICC Match Referee may, in reviewing a Concussion 
Replacement Request made in accordance with clause 
1.2.7.3, request any such further information as may be 
required in order to make the determination required 
under clauses 1.2.8.1 and 1.2.8.2.
 1.2.9  The decision of the ICC Match Referee in relation to any 
Concussion	Replacement	Request	shall	be	final	and	neither	team	
shall have any right of appeal.
 1.2.10  Once the Concussion Replacement has been approved by the ICC 
Match Referee, the replaced player shall play no further part in 
the match.
 1.2.11  Both the Concussion Replacement and the replaced player 
shall be considered to have played in the match for records and 
statistical purposes.
 1.3 Captain
 1.3.1 If at any time the captain is not available, a deputy shall act for him.
 1.3.2 If a captain is not available to nominate the players, then any 
person associated with that team may act as his deputy to do so. 
See clause 1.2.
 1.3.3 At any time after the nomination of the players, only a 
nominated player can act as deputy in discharging the duties 
and responsibilities of the captain as stated in these Playing 
Conditions, including at the toss. See clause 13.4 (The toss).
 1.4 Responsibility of captains
  The captains are responsible at all times for ensuring that play is 
conducted within the Spirit of Cricket as well as within these  
Playing Conditions. 1.2.5 A player or player support personnel who has been suspended 
from participating in a match shall not, from the toss of the coin 
and for the remainder of the match thereafter:
 1.2.5.1 Be nominated as, or carry out any of the duties or 
responsibilities	of	a	substitute	fielder,	or
 1.2.5.2 Enter any part of the playing area (which shall include 
the	field	of	play	and	the	area	between	the	boundary	
and the perimeter boards) at any time, including any 
scheduled or unscheduled breaks in play.
 1.2.6  A player who has been suspended from participating in a 
match shall be permitted from the toss of the coin and for the 
remainder of the match thereafter be permitted to enter the 
players’ dressing room provided that the players’ dressing room 
(or any part thereof) for the match is not within the playing area 
described in clause 1.2.5.2 above (for example, the player is not 
permitted	to	enter	the	on-field	‘dug-out’).
 1.2.7  If a player sustains a concussion or suspected concussion as a 
result of a head or neck injury during the course of the relevant 
match, a Concussion Replacement may be permitted in the 
following circumstances:
 1.2.7.1  the head or neck injury must have been sustained during 
play and within the playing area described in clause 
1.2.5.2 above;
 1.2.7.2  a concussion or suspected concussion must have been 
formally diagnosed by the Team Medical Representative;
 1.2.7.3  the Team Medical Representative or Team Manager shall 
submit a Concussion Replacement Request to the ICC 
Match Referee on a standard form, which shall:
 1.2.7.3.1  identify the player who has sustained the 
concussion or suspected concussion;
 1.2.7.3.2  specify the incident in which the concussion or 
suspected concussion was sustained, including 
the time at which it occurred;
	 1.2.7.3.3		 confirm	that,	following	an	examination,	the	
Team Medical Representative believes or 
suspects that the player has sustained a 
concussion	as	a	result	of	the	incident	specified	
in 1.2.7.3.2 above; and
 1.2.7.3.4  identify the requested Concussion 
Replacement, who shall be a like-for-like 
replacement for the player who has sustained 
the concussion or suspected concussion.
 1.2.7.4  The Concussion Replacement Request must be submitted 
as	soon	as	possible	after	the	incident	specified	in	1.2.7.3.2	if 	
a Concussion Replacement is to be permitted.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.6 5.7 2.4 The wickets, creases and boundaries
  Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy 
themselves that
 2.4.1 the wickets are properly pitched. See clause 8 (The wickets).
 2.4.2 the creases are correctly marked. See clause 7 (The creases).
	 2.4.3	 the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play	complies	with	the	requirements	
of	clauses	19.1	(Determining	the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play),	  
19.2 (Identifying and marking the boundary) and 19.3 (Restoring 
the boundary).
 2.5 Conduct of the match, implements and equipment
  Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy 
themselves that
 2.5.1 the conduct of the match is strictly in accordance with these 
Playing Conditions.
 2.5.2 the implements used in the match conform to the following
 2.5.2.1 clause 4 (The ball).
 2.5.2.2 externally visible requirements of clause 5 (The bat) and 
paragraph 1 of Appendix B.
 2.5.2.3 either clauses 8.2 (Size of stumps) and 8.3 (The bails).
 2.5.3 no player uses equipment other than that permitted. See 
paragraph 2 of Appendix A. Note particularly therein the 
interpretation	of	‘protective	helmet’.
 2.5.4 the wicket-keeper’s gloves comply with the requirements of 
clause 27.2 (Gloves).
 2.6 Fair and unfair play
  The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play.
 2.7 Fitness for play
 2.7.1 It is solely for the umpires together to decide whether 
either conditions of ground, weather or light or exceptional 
circumstances mean that it would be dangerous or unreasonable 
for play to take place.
  Conditions shall not be regarded as either dangerous or 
unreasonable merely because they are not ideal.
  The fact that the grass and the ball are wet does not warrant the 
ground conditions being regarded as unreasonable or dangerous.
 2.7.2 Conditions shall be regarded as dangerous if there is actual and 
foreseeable risk to the safety of any player or umpire.
 2.7.3 Conditions shall be regarded as unreasonable if, although posing 
no risk to safety, it would not be sensible for play to proceed. 2 THE UMPIRES
 2.1 Appointment and attendance
  The following rules for the selection and appointment of T20I umpires 
shall be followed as far as it is practicable to do so:
 2.1.1 The umpires shall control the game as required by these Playing 
Conditions, with absolute impartiality and shall be present at the 
ground at least two hours before the scheduled start of play,
	 2.1.2	 The	ICC	shall	establish	an	‘Elite	Panel’	of	umpires	who	shall	be	
contracted to the ICC.
	 2.1.3	 Each	Full	Member	shall	nominate	from	its	panel	of	first	class	
umpires	up	to	four	umpires	to	an	‘International	Panel’	
 2.1.4 The Home Board shall appoint both umpires to stand in each T20I 
match. Such umpires shall be selected from its umpires on the 
Elite or International Panel.
 2.1.5 In all T20I matches, the third umpire will be appointed by the 
Home	Board	and	shall	act	as	the	emergency	on-field	umpire	and	
officiate	in	regard	to	TV	replays.	Such	appointment	shall	be	made	
from	the	‘Elite	Panel’	or	the	‘International	Panel’.
 2.1.5.1 The playing conditions governing the use of the DRS and 
the third umpire are included in Appendix D.
 2.1.6 The Home Board shall also appoint a fourth umpire for each T20I 
match	from	its	panel	of	first	class	umpires.	The	fourth	umpire	
shall	act	as	the	emergency	third	umpire.	In	‘DRS’	T20I	matches	the	
fourth umpire shall be appointed from the “International Panel” 
 2.1.7 The ICC shall appoint the match referee for all matches  
(ICC Match Referee).
 2.1.8 The ICC Match Referee shall not be from the same country as the 
participating teams.
 2.1.9 Neither team will have a right of objection to the appointment of 
any umpire or match referee.
 2.2 Change of umpire
  An umpire shall not be changed during the match, other than in 
exceptional circumstances, unless he/she is injured or ill.
 2.3 Consultation with Home Board
  Before the match the umpires shall consult with the Home Board  
to determine;
 2.3.1 the balls to be used during the match. See clause 4 (The ball).
 2.3.2 the hours of play and the times and durations of any agreed intervals. 
 2.3.3 which clock or watch and back-up time piece is to be used during 
the match.
	 2.3.4	 the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play.	See	clause	19	(Boundaries).
 2.3.5 the use of covers. See clause 10 (Covering the pitch).
 2.3.6 any special conditions of play affecting the conduct of the match.
 inform the scorers of agreements in 2.3.2, 2.3.3, 2.3.4 and 2.3.6.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.8 5.9 2.8.7 When there is a suspension of play it is the responsibility of the 
umpires to monitor conditions. They shall make inspections as 
often	as	appropriate,	unaccompanied	by	any	players	or	officials.	
Immediately the umpires together agree that the conditions are 
no longer dangerous or unreasonable they shall call upon the 
players to resume play.
 2.8.8 The safety of all persons within the ground is of paramount 
importance to the ICC. In the event that of any threatening 
circumstance, whether actual or perceived (including for example 
weather, pitch invasions, act of God, etc.), then the umpires, on 
the advice of the ICC Match Referee, should suspend play and all 
players	and	officials	should	immediately	be	asked	to	leave	the	field 	
of play in a safe and orderly manner and to relocate to a secure 
and safe area (depending on each particular threat) pending the 
satisfactory passing or resolution of such threat or risk to the 
reasonable satisfaction of the umpires, ICC Match Referee, the 
head of the relevant Ground Authority, the head of ground security 
and/or the police as the circumstances may require.
 2.8.9 Where play is suspended under clause 2.8.8 above the decision 
to abandon or resume play shall be the responsibility of the ICC 
Match Referee who shall act only after consultation with the 
head of ground security and the police.
 2.9 Position of umpires
  The umpires shall stand where they can best see any act upon which 
their decision may be required.
  Subject to this over-riding consideration, the bowler’s end umpire shall 
stand in a position so as not to interfere with either the bowler’s run-up 
or the striker’s view.
  The striker’s end umpire may elect to stand on the off side instead of the 
on	side	of	the	pitch,	provided	he/she	informs	the	captain	of	the	fielding	
side, the striker and the other umpire.
 2.10 Umpires changing ends
  Shall not apply.
 2.11 Disagreement and dispute
  Where there is disagreement or dispute about any matter, the umpires 
together	shall	make	the	final	decision.	See	also	clause	31.6	(Consultation	
by umpires).
 2.12 Umpire’s decision
  An umpire may alter any decision provided that such alteration is made 
promptly.	This	apart,	an	umpire’s	decision,	once	made,	is	final. 2.7.4 If the umpires consider the ground is so wet or slippery as to 
deprive	the	bowler	of	a	reasonable	foothold,	the	fielders	of	
the power of free movement, or the batsmen of the ability 
to play their strokes or to run between the wickets, then 
these conditions shall be regarded as so bad that it would be 
dangerous and unreasonable for play to take place.
 2.8 Suspension of play in dangerous or unreasonable circumstances
 2.8.1 All references to ground include the pitch. See clause 6.1  
(Area of pitch).
 2.8.2 If at any time the umpires together agree that the conditions 
of ground, weather or light, or any other circumstances are 
dangerous or unreasonable, they shall immediately suspend play, 
or not allow play to start or to recommence. The decision as to 
whether conditions are so bad as to warrant such action is one 
for the umpires alone to make, following consultation with the 
ICC Match Referee.
 2.8.3 If circumstances are warranted, the umpires shall stop play and 
instruct the Ground Authority to take whatever action they can 
and use whatever equipment is necessary to remove as much 
dew	as	possible	from	the	outfield	when	conditions	become	
unreasonable or dangerous. The umpires may also instruct 
the ground staff to take such action during scheduled and 
unscheduled breaks in play.
 2.8.4 The umpires shall disregard any shadow on the pitch from the 
stadium or from any permanent object on the ground.
 2.8.5 Light Meters
  It is the responsibility of the ICC to supply light meters to the match 
officials	to	be	used	in	accordance	with	these	playing	conditions.
 2.8.5.1 All light meters shall be uniformly calibrated.
 2.8.5.2 The umpires shall be entitled to use light meter readings 
as	a	guideline	for	determining	whether	the	light	is	fit	  
for play in accordance with the criteria set out in clause 
2.8.2 above.
 2.8.5.3 Light meter readings may accordingly be used by  
the umpires:
 2.8.5.3.1 To determine whether there has been at any 
stage a deterioration or improvement in the light.
 2.8.5.3.2 As benchmarks for the remainder of a match.
	 2.8.6	 Use	of	artificial	lights
  If in the opinion of the umpires, natural light is deteriorating to an 
unfit	level,	they	shall	authorize	the	Ground	Authority	to	use	the	
available	artificial	lighting	so	that	the	match	can	commence	or	
continue in acceptable conditions.
  In the event of power failure or lights malfunction, the provisions 
relating to the delay or interruption of play due to bad weather 
or light shall apply.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.10 5.11 2.13.1.4 All the signals in clause 2.13.1.3 are to be made by the 
bowler’s end umpire except that for Short run, which 
is to be signalled by the umpire at the end where short 
running occurs. However, the bowler’s end umpire 
shall	be	responsible	both	for	the	final	signal	of	Short	
run to the scorers and, if more than one run is short, for 
informing them as to the number of runs to be recorded.
 2.13.2 The umpire shall wait until each signal to the scorers has  
been separately acknowledged by a scorer before allowing play 
to proceed.
  If several signals are to be used, they should be given in the order 
that the events occurred.
 2.14 Informing the umpires
  Wherever the umpires are to receive information from captains or other 
players	under	these	Playing	Conditions,	it	will	be	sufficient	for	one	
umpire to be so informed and for him/her to inform the other umpire.
 2.15 Correctness of scores
  Consultation between umpires and scorers on doubtful points is 
essential. The umpires shall, throughout the match, satisfy themselves as 
to the correctness of the number of runs scored, the wickets that have 
fallen and, where appropriate, the number of overs bowled.
  The umpires shall ensure that they are able to contact the scorers at 
any time during the match and at its conclusion to address any issues 
relating to the correctness of scores.
 3 THE SCORERS
 3.1 Appointment of scorers
  Two scorers shall be appointed to record all runs scored, all wickets 
taken and, where appropriate, number of overs bowled.
 3.2 Correctness of scores
  The scorers shall frequently check to ensure that their records agree and 
consult with the umpires if necessary. See clause 2.15 (Correctness of 
scores).
 3.3 Acknowledging signals
  The scorers shall accept all instructions and signals given to them by the 
umpires and shall immediately acknowledge each separate signal.
 4 THE BALL
 4.1 Weight and size
  The ball, when new, shall weigh not less than 5.5 ounces/155.9 g, nor 
more than 5.75 ounces/163 g, and shall measure not less than 8.81 in/22.4 
cm, nor more than 9 in/22.9 cm in circumference. 2.13 Signals
 2.13.1 The following code of signals shall be used by umpires.
 2.13.1.1 Signals made while the ball is in play
  No ball - by extending one arm horizontally.
	 	 Out	-	by	raising	an	index	finger	above	the	head.	(If	not	
out, the umpire shall call Not out.)
  Wide - by extending both arms horizontally.
  Dead ball - by crossing and re-crossing the wrists below 
the waist.
 2.13.1.2 When the ball is dead, the bowler’s end umpire shall 
repeat the signals in clause 2.13.1.1, with the exception of 
the signal for Out, to the scorers.
 2.13.1.3 The signals listed below shall be made to the scorers only 
when the ball is dead.
	 	 Boundary	4	-	by	waving	an	arm	from	side	to	side	finishing	
with the arm across the chest.
  Boundary 6 - by raising both arms above the head.
  Bye - by raising an open hand above the head.
	 	 Five	Penalty	runs	awarded	to	the	batting	side	–	by 	
repeated tapping of one shoulder with the opposite hand.
	 	 Five	Penalty	runs	awarded	to	the	fielding	side	–	by	
placing one hand on the opposite shoulder.
  Leg bye - by touching a raised knee with the hand.
  Revoke last signal - by touching both shoulders, each 
with the opposite hand.
  Short run - by bending one arm upwards and touching 
the	nearer	shoulder	with	the	tips	of	the	fingers.
	 	 Free	Hit	–	after	signaling	the	No	ball,	the	bowler’s	end	
umpire extends one arm straight upwards and moves it in 
a circular motion.
	 	 Powerplay	Over	–	by	rotating	his	arm	in	a	large	circle.
  The following signal is for Level 4 player conduct 
offences. The signal has two parts, both of which should 
be acknowledged separately by the scorers.
  Level 4 conduct
	 	 Part	1	–	by	putting	one	arm	out	to	the	side	of	the	body	
and repeatedly raising it and lowering it.
	 	 Part	2	–	by	raising	an	index	finger,	held	at	shoulder	height,	
to the side of the body.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.12 5.13 5.3 The blade
 5.3.1 The blade comprises the whole of the bat apart from the handle 
as	defined	in	clause	5.2	and	in	paragraph	1.3	of	Appendix	B.
 5.3.2 The blade shall consist solely of wood.
 5.4 Protection and repair
	 	 Subject	to	the	specifications	in	paragraph	1.4	of	Appendix	B.	and	
providing clause 5.5 is not contravened,
 5.4.1 solely for the purposes of
  either
  protection from surface damage to the face, sides and shoulders 
of the blade
  or
  repair to the blade after surface damage,
  material that is not rigid, either at the time of its application to 
the blade or subsequently, may be placed on these surfaces.
 5.4.2 for repair of the blade after damage other than surface damage
 5.4.2.1 solid material may be inserted into the blade.
 5.4.2.2 The only material permitted for any insertion is wood 
with minimal essential adhesives.
 5.4.3 to prevent damage to the toe, material may be placed on that 
part of the blade but shall not extend over any part of the face, 
back or sides of the blade.
 5.5 Damage to the ball
 5.5.1 For any part of the bat, covered or uncovered, the hardness 
of the constituent materials and the surface texture thereof 
shall not be such that either or both could cause unacceptable 
damage to the ball.
 5.5.2 Any material placed on any part of the bat, for whatever purpose, 
shall similarly not be such that it could cause unacceptable 
damage to the ball.
 5.5.3 For the purpose of this clause, unacceptable damage is any 
change that is greater than normal wear and tear caused by the 
ball striking the uncovered wooden surface of the blade.
 5.6 Contact with the ball
  In these clauses,
 5.6.1 reference to the bat shall imply that the bat is held in the batsman’s 
hand or a glove worn on his hand, unless stated otherwise.
 5.6.2 contact between the ball and any of 5.6.2.1 to 5.6.2.4
 5.6.2.1 the bat itself
 5.6.2.2 the batsman’s hand holding the bat 4.2 Approval and control of balls
 4.2.1 The Home Board shall provide white cricket balls of an approved 
standard for T20I cricket and spare used balls for changing during 
a match, which shall also be of the same brand. Note: The Home 
Board shall be required to advise the Visiting Board of the brand 
of ball to be used in the match(es) at least 30 days prior to the 
start of the match(es).
	 4.2.2	 The	 fielding	captain	or	his	nominee	 may	select	the	ball	with	which	
he wishes to bowl from the supply provided by the Home Board. 
The fourth umpire shall take a box containing at least 6 new balls 
to the dressing room and supervise the selection of the ball.
 4.2.3 The umpires shall retain possession of the match ball(s) 
throughout the duration of the match when play is not actually 
taking place.
 4.2.4 During play umpires shall periodically and irregularly inspect the 
condition of the ball and shall retain possession of it at the fall of 
a wicket or any other disruption in play.
 4.3 New ball
 4.3.1 One new ball shall be used at the start of each innings.
	 4.4	 Ball	lost	or	becoming	unfit	for	play
  If, during play, the ball cannot be found or recovered or the umpires 
agree	that	it	has	become	unfit	for	play	through	normal	use,	the	
umpires shall replace it with a ball which has had wear comparable 
with that which the previous ball had received before the need for its 
replacement. When the ball is replaced, the umpire shall inform the 
batsmen	and	the	fielding	captain.
 5 THE BAT
 5.1 The bat
 5.1.1 The bat consists of two parts, a handle and a blade.
 5.1.2 The basic requirements and measurements of the bat are set 
out	in	this	clause	with	detailed	specifications	in	paragraph	1	of	
Appendix B.
 5.2 The handle
 5.2.1 The handle is to be made principally of cane and/or wood.
	 5.2.2	 The	part	of	the	handle	that	is	wholly	outside	the	blade	is	defined	
to be the upper portion of the handle. It is a straight shaft for 
holding the bat.
 5.2.3 The upper portion of the handle may be covered with a grip as 
defined	in	paragraph	1.2.2	of	Appendix	B.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.14 5.15 6.3 Selection and preparation
  Before the match, the Ground Authority shall be responsible for the 
selection and preparation of the pitch. During the match, the umpires 
shall control its use and maintenance.
 6.3.1 The Ground Authority shall ensure that during the period prior 
to the start of play and during intervals, the pitch area shall be 
roped off so as to prevent unauthorised access. (The pitch area 
shall include an area at least 2 metres beyond the rectangle made 
by the crease markings at both ends of the pitch).
 6.3.2 The fourth umpire shall ensure that, prior to the start of play and 
during	any	intervals,	only	authorised	staff,	the	ICC	match	officials,	
players, team coaches and authorised television personnel shall 
be allowed access to the pitch area. Such access shall be subject 
to the following limitations:
 6.3.2.1 Only captains and team coaches may walk on the  
actual playing surface of the pitch area (outside of  
the crease markings).
 6.3.2.2 Access to the pitch area by television personnel shall 
be restricted to one camera crew (including one or 
two	television	commentators)	of	the	official	licensed	
television broadcaster(s) (but not news crews).
 6.3.2.3 No spiked footwear shall be permitted.
 6.3.2.4 No one shall be permitted to bounce a ball on the pitch, 
strike it with a bat or cause damage to the pitch in any 
other way.
 6.3.2.5 Access shall not interfere with pitch preparation.
 6.3.3 In the event of any dispute, the ICC Match Referee will rule and 
his	ruling	will	be	final.
 6.4 Changing the pitch
	 6.4.1	 If	the	on-field	umpires	decide	that	it	is	dangerous	or	
unreasonable for play to continue on the match pitch, they shall 
stop play and immediately advise the ICC Match Referee.
	 6.4.2	 The	on-field	umpires	and	the	ICC	Match	Referee	shall	then	
consult with both captains.
 6.4.3 If the captains agree to continue, play shall resume.
	 6.4.4	 If	the	decision	is	not	to	resume	play,	the	on-field	umpires	
together with the ICC Match Referee shall consider whether the 
existing pitch can be repaired and the match resumed from the 
point it was stopped. In considering whether to authorise such 
repairs, the ICC Match Referee must consider whether this would 
place either side at an unfair advantage, given the play that had 
already taken place on the dangerous pitch. 5.6.2.3 any part of a glove worn on the batsman’s hand holding 
the bat
 5.6.2.4 any additional materials permitted under 5.4
  shall be regarded as the ball striking or touching the bat or being 
struck by the bat.
 5.7 Bat size limits
 5.7.1 The overall length of the bat, when the lower portion of the 
handle is inserted, shall not be more than 38 in/96.52 cm.
 5.7.2 The blade of the bat shall not exceed the following dimensions:
  Width: 4.25in/10.8 cm
  Depth: 2.64in/6.7 cm
  Edges: 1.56in/4.0cm.
  Furthermore, it should also be able to pass through a bat gauge 
as described in paragraph 1.6 of Appendix B.
 5.7.3 The handle shall not exceed 52% of the overall length of the bat.
 5.7.4 The material permitted for covering the blade in clause 5.4.1 shall 
not exceed 0.04 in/0.1 cm in thickness.
 5.7.5 The maximum permitted thickness of protective material placed 
on the toe of the blade is 0.12 in/0.3 cm.
 5.8 Categories of bat
 5.8.1 Type A bats conform to clauses 5.1 to 5.7 inclusive.
 5.8.2 Only Type A bats may be used in T20I matches.
 6 THE PITCH
 6.1 Area of pitch
  The pitch is a rectangular area of the ground 22 yards/20.12 m in length 
and 10 ft/3.05 m in width. It is bounded at either end by the bowling 
creases and on either side by imaginary lines, one each side of the 
imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps, each parallel 
to	it	and	5	ft/1.52	m	from	it.	If	the	pitch	is	next	to	an	artificial	pitch	which 	
is closer than 5 ft/1.52 m from the middle stumps, the pitch on that side 
will extend only to the junction of the two surfaces. See clauses 8.1 
(Description, width and pitching) and 7.2 (The bowling crease).
 6.2 Fitness of pitch for play
	 	 The	umpires	shall	be	the	sole	judges	of	the	fitness	of	the	pitch	for	
play. See clauses 2.7 (Fitness for play) and 2.8 (Suspension of play in 
dangerous or unreasonable conditions).ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.16 5.17 7.4 The return creases
  The return creases, which are the inside edges of the crease markings, 
shall be at right angles to the popping crease at a distance of 4 ft 4 
in/1.32 m either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two 
middle stumps. Each return crease shall be marked from the popping 
crease to a minimum of 8 ft/2.44 m behind it and shall be considered to 
be unlimited in length.
 7.5 Additional Crease Markings
  As a guideline to the umpires for the calling of Wides on the offside, the 
crease markings detailed in paragraph 1 of Appendix C may be marked in 
white at each end of the pitch.
 8 THE WICKETS
 8.1 Description, width and pitching
  Two sets of wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other 
in the centres of the bowling creases. Each set shall be 9 in/22.86 cm 
wide and shall consist of three wooden stumps with two wooden bails 
on top. See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
 8.2 Size of stumps
  The tops of the stumps shall be 28 in/71.12 cm above the playing surface 
and shall be dome shaped except for the bail grooves. The portion of 
a stump above the playing surface shall be cylindrical apart from the 
domed top, with circular section of diameter not less than 1.38 in/3.50 
cm nor more than 1.5 in/3.81 cm. See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
  For televised matches the Home Board may provide a slightly larger 
cylindrical stump to accommodate the stump camera. When the larger 
stump is used, all three stumps must be exactly the same size.
 8.3 The bails
 8.3.1 The bails, when in position on top of the stumps,
	 –		shall	not	project	more	than	0.5	in/1.27	cm	above	them.
	 –		shall	fit	between	the	stumps	without	forcing	them	out	of	 
the vertical.
	 8.3.2	 Each	bail	shall	conform	to	the	following	specifications	 
(see paragraph 2 of Appendix B).
  Overall length 4.31 in/10.95 cm
  Length of barrel 2.13 in /5.40 cm
  Longer spigot 1.38 in/3.50 cm
  Shorter spigot 0.81 in/2.06 cm.
 8.3.3 The two spigots and the barrel shall have the same centre line.
 8.3.4 Devices aimed at protecting player safety by limiting the distance 
that a bail can travel off the stumps will be allowed, subject to 
the approval of the Home Board and the ICC. 6.4.5 If the decision is that the existing pitch cannot be repaired, then 
the match is to be abandoned with the following consequences: 
 6.4.5.1 In the event of the required number of overs to 
constitute a match having been completed at the time 
the match is abandoned, the result shall be determined 
according to the provisions of clause 16.4.2.
 6.4.5.2 In the event of the required number of overs to 
constitute a match not having been completed, the 
match will be abandoned as a no result.
 6.4.6 If the abandonment occurs on the day of the match, the ICC 
Match Referee shall consult with the Home Board with the 
objective	of	finding	a	way	for	a	new	match	(including	a	new	
nomination of teams and toss) to commence on the same date 
and venue. Such a match may be played either on the repaired 
pitch or on another pitch, subject to the ICC Match Referee and 
the	relevant	Ground	Authority	both	being	satisfied	that	the	new	
pitch will be of the required T20I standard. The playing time lost 
between the scheduled start time of the original match and 
the actual start time of the new match will be covered by the 
provisions of clause 12.
 6.4.7 If it is not possible to start a new match on the scheduled day of 
the	match,	the	relevant	officials	from	the	participating	Boards	
shall agree on whether the match can be replayed within the 
existing tour schedule.
 6.4.8 Throughout the above decision making processes, the ICC Match 
Referee shall keep informed both captains and the head of the 
Ground Authority. The head of the Ground Authority shall ensure 
that suitable and prompt public announcements are made.
 6.5 Non-turf pitches
  All T20I matches shall be played on natural turf pitches. The use of PVA 
and other adhesives in the preparation of pitches is not permitted.
 7 THE CREASES
 7.1 The creases
  The positions of a bowling crease, a popping crease and two return 
creases shall be marked by white lines, as set out in clauses 7.2, 7.3 and 
7.4, at each end of the pitch. See paragraph 1 of Appendix C.
 7.2 The bowling crease
  The bowling crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, is the 
line that marks the end of the pitch, as in clause 6.1 (Area of pitch).  
It shall be 8 ft 8 in/2.64 m in length.
 7.3 The popping crease
  The popping crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, shall 
be in front of and parallel to the bowling crease and shall be 4 ft/1.22 m 
from it. The popping crease shall be marked to a minimum of 15 yards/13.71 
m on either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two 
middle stumps and shall be considered to be unlimited in length.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.18 5.19 9.2 Clearing debris from the pitch
 9.2.1 The pitch shall be cleared of any debris
 9.2.1.1 between innings. This shall precede rolling if any is to 
take place.
 9.2.2 The clearance of debris in clause 9.2.1 shall be done by sweeping, 
except where the umpires consider that this may be detrimental 
to the surface of the pitch. In this case the debris must be cleared 
from that area by hand, without sweeping.
 9.2.3 In addition to clause 9.2.1, debris may be cleared from the pitch 
by hand, without sweeping, before mowing and whenever either 
umpire considers it necessary.
 9.3 Mowing
 9.3.1 Responsibility for mowing
 9.3.1.1 All mowings which are carried out before the match shall 
be the sole responsibility of the Ground Authority.
 9.4 Watering the pitch
  The pitch shall not be watered during the match.
 9.5 Re-marking creases
  Creases shall be re-marked whenever either umpire considers it necessary.
 9.6 Maintenance of footholes
  The umpires shall ensure that the holes made by the bowlers and 
batsmen are cleaned out and dried whenever necessary to facilitate play.
	 	 The	umpires	shall	allow,	if	necessary,	the	returfing	of	footholes	made	by	
the	bowlers	in	their	delivery	strides,	or	the	use	of	quick-setting	fillings	
for the same purpose.
  In addition, the umpires shall see that wherever possible and whenever 
it is considered necessary, action is taken during all intervals in play to 
do whatever is practicable to improve the bowler’s footholes. 
 9.7 Securing of footholds and maintenance of pitch
  During play, umpires shall allow the players to secure their footholds by 
the use of sawdust provided that no damage to the pitch is caused and 
that clause 41 (Unfair play) is not contravened.
 9.8 Protection and preparation of adjacent pitches during matches
  The protection (by way of an appropriate cover) and preparation of 
pitches which are adjacent to the match pitch will be permitted during 
the match subject to the following:
 9.8.1 Such measures will only be possible if requested by the Ground 
Authority and approved by the umpires before the start of  
the match.
 9.8.2 Approval should only be granted where such measures are 
unavoidable and will not compromise the safety of the players or 
their ability to execute their actions with complete freedom. 8.4 Dispensing with bails
  The umpires may agree to dispense with the use of bails, if necessary. 
If they so agree then no bails shall be used at either end. The use of 
bails shall be resumed as soon as conditions permit. See clause 29.4 
(Dispensing with bails).
 8.5 LED Wickets
  The use of approved LED Wickets is permitted. Refer also to paragraphs 
3.8.1.6 and 4.2 of Appendix D.
 9 PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PLAYING AREA
 9.1 Rolling
  The pitch shall not be rolled during the match except as permitted in 
clauses 9.1.1 and 9.1.2.
 9.1.1 Frequency and duration of rolling
  During the match the pitch may be rolled at the request of the 
captain of the side batting second, for a period of not more than 
7 minutes, before the start of the second innings.
 9.1.2 Rolling after a delayed start
  In addition to the rolling permitted above, if, after the toss and 
before	the	first	innings	of	the	match,	the	start	is	delayed,	the	
captain of the batting side may request that the pitch be rolled 
for not more than 7 minutes. However, if the umpires together 
agree	that	the	delay	has	had	no	significant	effect	on	the	state	of	
the pitch, they shall refuse such request for rolling of the pitch.
 9.1.3 Choice of rollers
  If there is more than one roller available the captain of the 
batting side shall choose which one is to be used.
  The following shall apply in addition to clause 9.1:
	 9.1.4	 Prior	to	the	scheduled	time	for	the	toss,	the	artificial	drying	of	
the	pitch	and	outfield	shall	be	at	the	discretion	of	the	Ground	
Authority. Thereafter and throughout the match the drying of the 
outfield	may	be	undertaken	at	any	time	by	the	Ground	Authority,	
but the drying of the affected area of the pitch shall be carried 
out only on the instructions and under the supervision of the 
umpires. The umpires shall be empowered to have the pitch dried 
without reference to the captains at any time they are of the 
opinion	that	it	is	unfit	for	play.
 9.1.5 The umpires may instruct the Ground Authority to use any 
available equipment, including any roller for the purpose of 
drying	the	pitch	and	making	it	fit	for	play.
 9.1.6 An absorbent roller may be used to remove water from the 
covers including the cover on the match pitch.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.20 5.21 11.3 Allowance for interval between innings
  Law 11.3 of the Laws of Cricket shall not apply.
 11.4 Changing agreed times of intervals
	 11.4.1	 If	the	innings	of	the	team	batting	first	is	completed	prior	to	the	
scheduled time for the interval, the interval shall take place 
immediately and the innings of the team batting second will 
commence correspondingly earlier. In circumstances where the 
side	bowling	first	has	not	completed	 the	allotted	number	of	overs	
by	the	scheduled	or	re-scheduled	cessation	time	for	the	first	
innings, the umpires shall reduce the length of the interval by the 
amount	of	time	that	the	first	innings	over-ran.	The	minimum	time	
for the interval will be 10 minutes. 
 11.4.2 However, following a lengthy delay or interruption prior to the 
completion	of	the	innings	of	the	team	batting	first,	the	Match	
Referee may, at his discretion, reduce the interval between 
innings from 20 minutes to not less than 10 minutes. 
 11.4.3 Such discretion should only be exercised after determining the 
adjusted overs per side based on a 20 minute interval. If having 
exercised	this	discretion,	the	rescheduled	finishing	time	for	the 	
match	is	earlier	than	the	latest	possible	finishing	time,	then	these 	
minutes should be deducted from the length of any interruption 
during the second innings before determining the overs remaining. 
 11.5 Intervals for drinks
 11.5.1 No drinks intervals shall be permitted.
 11.5.2 An individual player may be given a drink either on the boundary 
edge	or	at	the	fall	of	a	wicket,	on	the	field,	provided	that	no	
playing time is wasted. No other drinks shall be taken onto the 
field	without	the	permission	of	the	umpires.	Any	player	taking	
drinks	onto	the	field	shall	be	dressed	in	proper	cricket	attire	
(subject	to	the	wearing	of	bibs	–	refer	to	the	note	in	clause	24.1.4).
 11.6 Scorers to be informed
  The umpires shall ensure that the scorers are informed of all agreements 
about hours of play and intervals and of any changes made thereto as 
permitted under this clause.
 12 START OF PLAY; CESSATION OF PLAY
 12.1 Call of Play
	 	 The	bowler’s	end	umpire	shall	call	Play	before	the	first	ball	of	the	match	
and on the resumption of play after any interval or interruption.
 12.2 Call of Time
  The bowler’s end umpire shall call Time, when the ball is dead, at the 
end of any session of play or as required by these Playing Conditions. 
See also clause 20.3 (Call of Over or Time).
 12.3 Removal of bails
  After the call of Time, the bails shall be removed from both wickets. 9.8.3 The preparation work shall be carried out under the supervision 
of the fourth umpire.
 9.8.4 The consent of the captains is not required but the umpires shall 
advise both captains and the ICC Match Referee before the start 
of the match on what has been agreed.
 10 COVERING THE PITCH
 10.1 Before the match
  The use of covers before the match is the responsibility of the Ground 
Authority and may include full covering if required.
  The pitch shall be entirely protected against rain up to the 
commencement of play.
  However, the Ground Authority shall grant suitable facility to the 
captains to inspect the pitch before the nomination of their players 
and to the umpires to discharge their duties as laid down in clauses 
2 (The umpires), 6 (The pitch), 7 (The creases), 8 (The wickets), and 9 
(Preparation and maintenance of the playing area).
 10.2 During the match
  The pitch shall be entirely protected against rain up to the commencement 
of play, and for the duration of the period of the match.
  The covers must totally protect the pitch and also the pitch 
surroundings, to a minimum of 5 metres either side of the pitch, and any 
worn	or	soft	areas	in	the	outfield.
  The bowlers’ run-ups shall be covered during inclement weather,  
in order to keep them dry, to a distance of at least 10 x 10 metres.
 10.3 Removal of covers
  All covers (including “hessian” or “scrim” covers used to protect the pitch 
against the sun) shall be removed not later than 2 ½ hours before the 
scheduled start of play provided it is not raining at the time, but the pitch 
will be covered again if rain falls prior to the commencement of play.
 11 INTERVALS
 11.1 An interval
 11.1.1 The following shall be classed as intervals.
	 –		Intervals	between	innings.
	 –		Any	other	agreed	interval.
 11.1.2 Only these intervals shall be considered as scheduled breaks for 
the purposes of clause 24.2.6.
 11.2 Duration of interval
 11.2.1 There shall be a 20 minute interval between innings, taken 
from the call of Time before the interval until the call of Play on 
resumption after the interval.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.22 5.23 12.8.3.3 The time taken for all third umpire referrals and 
consultations and any umpire or player reviews;
 12.8.3.4 The time lost as a result of time wasting by the 
batting side; and
 12.8.3.5 The time lost due to all other circumstances that are 
beyond	the	control	of	the	fielding	side.
	 12.8.4	 In	the	event	of	any	time	allowances	being	granted	to	the	fielding 	
team under clause 12.8.3.4 above (time wasting by batting team), 
then such time shall be deducted from the allowances granted to 
such batting team in the determination of its over rate.
 12.8.5 In addition to the allowances as provided for above,
 12.8.5.1 in the case of an innings that has been reduced due 
to any delay or interruption in play, an additional 
allowance of 1 minute for every full 3 overs by which 
the innings is reduced will be granted.
 12.8.5.2 an additional allowance of 1 minute will be given for 
each of the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th wickets taken during 
an innings.
 12.8.6 If a batting team is bowled out within the time determined for 
that innings pursuant to these playing conditions (taking into 
account	all	of	the	time	allowances	set	out	above),	the	fielding	
side shall be deemed to have complied with the required 
minimum over rate.
	 12.8.7	 The	current	over	rate	of	the	fielding	team	(+/-	overs	compared	
to the minimum rate required), to be advised by the 3rd 
umpire every 30 minutes as a minimum, shall be displayed on a 
scoreboard or replay screen.
 13 INNINGS
 13.1 Number of innings
 13.1.1 A match shall be one innings for each side.
 13.2 Alternate innings
  Each side shall take their innings alternately.
 13.3 Completed innings
  A side’s innings is to be considered as completed if any of the  
following applies
 13.3.1 the side is all out.
 13.3.2 at the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batsman, further 
balls remain to be bowled but no further batsman is available to 
come in.
 13.3.3 the prescribed number of overs have been bowled to the 
batting side. 12.4 Starting a new over
  Another over shall always be started at any time during the match, 
unless an interval is to be taken in the circumstances set out in clause 
12.5.2, if the umpire, walking at normal pace, has arrived at the position 
behind the stumps at the bowler’s end before the time agreed for the 
next interval has been reached.
 12.5 Completion of an over
  Other than at the end of the match,
 12.5.1 if the agreed time for an interval is reached during an over, the 
over shall be completed before the interval is taken, except as 
provided for in clause 12.5.2.
 12.5.2 when less than 3 minutes remains before the time agreed for 
the next interval, the interval shall be taken immediately if
  either a batsman is dismissed or retires, or
	 	 the	players	have	occasion	to	leave	the	field,
  whether this occurs during an over or at the end of an over. 
Except at the end of an innings, if an over is thus interrupted  
it shall be completed on the resumption of play.
 12.6 Conclusion of match
 12.6.1 The match is concluded
	 12.6.1.1	 as	soon	as	a	result	as	defined	in	clauses	16.1	to	16.5	
(The result) is reached.
 12.6.1.2 as soon as the prescribed number of overs have  
been completed.
 12.6.2 The match is concluded if, without a conclusion having been 
reached	under	12.6.1,	the	players	leave	the	field	for	adverse	
conditions of ground, weather or light, or in exceptional 
circumstances, and no further play is possible.
 12.7 Hours of Play; Minimum Overs Requirement
 12.7.1 To be determined by the Home Board subject to there being  
2 sessions of 1 hour 25 minutes each, separated by a 20 minute 
interval between innings. 
 12.8 Minimum Over Rates
 12.8.1 The minimum over rate to be achieved in T20I Matches shall be 
14.11 overs per hour.
 12.8.2 The actual over rate shall be calculated at the end of each 
innings by the umpires.
 12.8.3 In calculating the actual over rate for the match, allowances 
shall be given as follows:
 12.8.3.1 The time lost as a result of treatment given to a player 
by	an	authorised	medical	personnel	on	the	field	of	play;
 12.8.3.2 The time lost as a result of a player being required to 
leave	the	field	as	a	result	of	a	serious	injury;ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.24 5.25 13.7.2.1.2 The revision of the number of overs should 
ensure, whenever possible, that both 
teams have the opportunity of batting 
for the same number of overs. The team 
batting second shall not bat for a greater 
number	of	overs	than	the	first	team	unless	
the latter completed its innings in less than 
its allocated overs. To constitute a match, a 
minimum of 5 overs have to be bowled to 
the side batting second, subject to a result 
not being achieved earlier.
 13.7.2.1.3 As soon as the total minutes of playing 
time remaining is less than the completed 
overs faced by Team 1 multiplied by 4.25, 
then	the	first	innings	is	terminated	and	the	
provisions of 13.7.2.2 below take effect.
	 13.7.2.1.4	 A	fixed	time	will	be	specified	for	the	
commencement of the interval, and also 
the close of play for the match, by applying 
a rate of 14.11 overs per hour. When 
calculating the length of playing time 
available for the match, or the length of 
either innings, the timing and duration of all 
relative delays, extensions in playing hours, 
interruptions in play, and intervals will be 
taken into consideration. This calculation 
must	not	cause	the	match	to	finish	earlier	
than the original or rescheduled time for 
cessation	of	play	on	the	final	scheduled	day	
for play. If required the original time shall 
be extended to allow for one extra over for 
each team. 
	 13.7.2.1.5	 If	the	team	fielding	first	fails	to	bowl	the	
revised	number	of	overs	by	the	specified	
time, play shall continue until the required 
number of overs have been bowled or the 
innings is completed. 
 13.7.2.1.6 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates 
(refer to the ICC Code of Conduct).
 13.7.2.2 Delay or Interruption to the innings of the Team 
Batting Second (see paragraph 2 of Appendix E)
 13.7.2.2.1 When playing time has been lost and, as a 
result, it is not possible for the team batting 
second to have the opportunity of receiving 
its allocated, or revised allocation of overs 
in the playing time available, the number of 
overs shall be reduced at a rate of 14.11 overs 
per hour in respect of the lost playing time. 
Should the calculations result in a fraction of 
an over the fraction shall be ignored.  13.4 The toss
	 	 The	captains	shall	toss	a	coin	for	the	choice	of	innings,	on	the	field	of	
play and under the supervision of the ICC Match Referee, not earlier 
than 30 minutes, nor later than 15 minutes before the scheduled or any 
rescheduled time for the start of play. Note, however, the provisions of 
clause 1.3 (Captain).
	 13.5	 Decision	to	be	notified
  As soon as the toss is completed, the captain of the side winning the 
toss	shall	decide	whether	to	bat	or	to	field	and	shall	notify	the	opposing	
captain	and	the	umpires	of	this	decision.	Once	notified,	the	decision	
cannot be changed.
 13.6 Duration of Match
 13.6.1 All matches will consist of one innings per side, each innings 
being limited to a maximum of 20 overs. All matches shall be of 
one day’s scheduled duration. 
 13.7 Length of Innings
 13.7.1 Uninterrupted Matches.
 13.7.1.1 Each team shall bat for 20 overs unless all out earlier. 
	 13.7.1.2	 If	the	team	fielding	first	fails	to	bowl	the	required	
number of overs by the scheduled time for cessation 
of	the	first	innings,	play	shall	continue	until	the	
required number of overs has been bowled. The 
interval shall not be extended and the second session 
shall commence at the scheduled time. The team 
batting second shall receive its full quota of 20 overs 
irrespective of the number of overs it bowled in the 
scheduled	time	for	the	cessation	of	the	first	innings.
	 13.7.1.3	 If	the	team	batting	first	is	dismissed	in	less	than	20	
overs, the team batting second shall be entitled to 
bat for 20 overs. 
	 13.7.1.4	 If	the	team	fielding	second	fails	to	bowl	20	overs	by	
the scheduled cessation time, the hours of play shall 
be extended until the required number of overs has 
been bowled or a result is achieved. 
 13.7.1.5 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates (refer to the 
ICC Code of Conduct).
 13.7.2 Delayed or Interrupted Matches 
 13.7.2.1 Delay or Interruption to the Innings of the Team 
Batting First (see paragraph 1 of Appendix E)
 13.7.2.1.1 When playing time has been lost the 
revised number of overs to be bowled in 
the match shall be based on a rate of 14.11 
overs per hour in the total remaining time 
available for play.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.26 5.27 13.9.3 In the event of a bowler breaking down and being unable to 
complete an over, the remaining balls will be allowed by another 
bowler. Such part of an over will count as a full over only in so far 
as each bowler’s limit is concerned. 
 13.9.4 The scoreboard shall show the total number of overs bowled 
and the number of overs bowled by each bowler. 
 14 THE FOLLOW-ON
 Shall not apply.
 15 DECLARATION AND FORFEITURE
 Shall not apply.
 16 THE RESULT
 16.1 A Win 
 16.1.1 The side which has scored in its one innings a total of runs in 
excess of that scored by the opposing side in its one completed 
innings shall win the match. See clause 13.3 (Completed innings). 
Note also clause 16.4 (Winning hit or extras).
 16.1.2 Save for circumstances where a match is awarded to a team as 
a consequence of the opposing team’s refusal to play (Clause 
16.2), a result can be achieved only if both teams have had the 
opportunity of batting for at least 5 overs, unless one team 
has been all out in less than 5 overs or unless the team batting 
second scores enough runs to win in less than 5 overs.
 16.1.3 Save for circumstances where a match is awarded to a team as a 
consequence of the opposing team’s refusal to play (Clause 16.2), 
all matches in which both teams have not had an opportunity of 
batting for a minimum of 5 overs, shall be declared a No Result.
 16.2 ICC Match Referee awarding a match
 16.2.1 A match shall be lost by a side which either
 16.2.1.1 concedes defeat or
 16.2.1.2 in the opinion of the ICC Match Referee refuses to play 
and the ICC Match Referee shall award the match to 
the other side.
 16.2.2 If an umpire considers that an action by any player or players 
might constitute a refusal by either side to play then the umpires 
together shall inform the ICC Match Referee of this fact. The 
ICC Match Referee shall together with the umpires ascertain 
the cause of the action. If the ICC Match Referee, after due 
consultation with the umpires, then decides that this action does 
constitute a refusal to play by one side, he/she shall so inform 
the captain of that side. If the captain persists in the action the 
ICC Match Referee shall award the match in accordance with 
clause 16.2.1.2 above. 13.7.2.2.2 In addition, should the innings of the team 
batting	first	have	been	completed	prior	to	
the scheduled, or re-scheduled time for 
the commencement of the interval, then 
any calculation relating to the revision of 
overs shall not be effective until an amount 
of time equivalent to that by which the 
second innings started early has elapsed. 
 13.7.2.2.3 To constitute a match, a minimum of 5 
overs have to be bowled to the team 
batting second subject to a result not being 
achieved earlier.
 13.7.2.2.4 The team batting second shall not bat for a 
greater	number	of	overs	than	the	first	team	
unless the latter completed its innings in 
less than its allocated overs. 
	 13.7.2.2.5	 A	fixed	time	will	be	specified	for	the	close	
of play by applying a rate of 14.11 overs 
per hour. The timing and duration of all 
relative delays, extensions in playing hours 
and interruptions in play will be taken into 
consideration in specifying this time. 
	 13.7.2.2.6	 If	the	team	fielding	second	fails	to	bowl	
the revised overs by the scheduled or 
re-scheduled close of play, the hours of 
play shall be extended until the overs have 
been bowled or a result achieved.
 13.7.2.2.7 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates 
(refer to the ICC Code of Conduct).
 13.8 Extra Time
  The participating countries may agree to provide for extra time 
where the start of play is delayed or play is suspended. For clarity, the 
changeover period (maximum 10 mins) for a Super Over after the main 
match is not to be taken into account when applying any permitted 
extra time available.
 13.9 Number of Overs per Bowler
 13.9.1 No bowler shall bowl more than 4 overs in an innings. 
 13.9.2 In a delayed or interrupted match where the overs are reduced 
for both teams or for the team bowling second;
 13.9.2.1 for innings of rescheduled length of at least 10 overs, 
no	bowler	may	bowl	more	than	one-fifth	of	the	total 	
overs allowed. Where the total overs is not divisible by 
5, one additional over shall be allowed to the maximum 
number per bowler necessary to make up the balance.
 13.9.2.2 for innings of rescheduled length of between 5 and 9 
overs, no bowler may bowl more than two overs.
 ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.28 5.29 16.5 Winning hit or extras
	 16.5.1	 As	soon	as	a	result	is	reached	as	defined	in	clauses	16.1,	16.2	or	
16.3.1, the match is at an end. Nothing that happens thereafter, 
except as in clause 41.18.2 (Penalty runs), shall be regarded as 
part of it. Note also clause 16.8.
 16.5.2 The side batting last will have scored enough runs to win only if 
its	total	of	runs	is	sufficient	without	including	any	runs	completed 	
by the batsmen before the completion of a catch, or the 
obstruction of a catch, from which the striker could be dismissed.
 16.5.3 If a boundary is scored before the batsmen have completed 
sufficient	runs	to	win	the	match,	the	whole	of	the	boundary	
allowance shall be credited to the side’s total and, in the case of 
a hit by the bat, to the striker’s score.
 16.6 Statement of result
  If the side batting last wins the match without losing all its wickets, the 
result shall be stated as a win by the number of wickets still then to fall.
  If, without having scored a total of runs in excess of the total scored 
by the opposing side, the innings of the side batting last has been 
completed, but as the result of an award of 5 Penalty runs its total of 
runs	is	then	sufficient	to	win,	the	result	shall	be	stated	as	a	win	to	that	
side by Penalty runs.
	 	 If	the	side	fielding	last	wins	the	match,	the	result	shall	be	stated	as	a	win	
by runs.
  If the match is decided by one side conceding defeat or refusing to play, 
the result shall be stated as Match Conceded or Match Awarded, as the 
case may be.
 16.7 Correctness of result
  Any decision as to the correctness of the scores shall be the 
responsibility of the umpires. See clause 2.15 (Correctness of scores).
 16.8 Mistakes in scoring
	 	 If,	after	the	players	and	umpires	have	left	the	field	in	the	belief	that	
the match has been concluded, the umpires discover that a mistake in 
scoring has occurred which affects the result then, subject to clause 16.9, 
they shall adopt the following procedure.
	 16.8.1	 If,	when	the	players	leave	the	field,	the	side	batting	last	has	not	
completed its innings and,
  either the number of overs to be bowled in that innings has not 
been completed, or
  the end of the innings has not been reached
  then, unless one side concedes defeat, the umpires shall order 
play to resume.
  Unless a result is reached sooner, play will then continue, if 
conditions permit, until the prescribed number of overs has 
been completed. The number of overs shall be taken as they 
were at the call of Time for the supposed conclusion of the 
match. No account shall be taken of the time between that 
moment and the resumption of play. 16.2.3 If action as in clause 16.2.2 above takes place after play has 
started and does not constitute a refusal to play the delay or 
interruption in play shall be dealt with in the same manner as 
provided for in clauses 13.7.2 (Delayed and Interrupted Matches) 
and 11.4 (Changing agreed times for intervals) above.
  Note: In addition to the consequences of any refusal to play 
prescribed under this clause, any such refusal, whether temporary 
or	final,	may	result	in	disciplinary	action	being	taken	against	the 	
captain and team responsible under the ICC Code of Conduct.
 16.3 All other matches – A Tie or No Result
 16.3.1 A Tie
  The result of a match shall be a Tie when all innings have been 
completed and the scores are equal.
  If the scores are equal, the result shall be a tie and no account 
shall be taken of the number of wickets that have fallen. In the 
event of a tied match the teams shall compete in a Super Over to 
determine the winner. Refer to Appendix F.
 16.3.2 No Result
  See 16.1.3 above.
 16.4 Prematurely Terminated Matches - Calculation of the Target Score
	 16.4.1	 Interrupted	Matches	–	Calculation	of	the	Target	Score
 16.4.1.1 If, due to suspension of play after the start of the 
match, the number of overs in the innings of either 
team has to be revised to a lesser number than 
originally allotted (minimum of 5 overs), then a 
revised target score (to win) should be set for the 
number of overs which the team batting second will 
have the opportunity of facing. This revised target is 
to be calculated using the current Duckworth/Lewis/
Stern method. The target set will always be a whole 
number and one run less will constitute a Tie. (Refer 
Duckworth/Lewis/Stern Regulations)
 16.4.2 Prematurely Terminated Matches
 16.4.2.1 If the innings of the side batting second is suspended 
(with at least 5 overs bowled) and it is not possible for 
the match to be resumed, the match will be decided 
by	comparison	with	the	DLS	‘Par	Score’	determined	
at the instant of the suspension by the Duckworth/
Lewis/Stern method (refer Duckworth/Lewis/Stern 
Regulations). If the score is equal to the par score, 
the match is a Tie. Otherwise the result is a victory, 
or defeat, by the margin of runs by which the score 
exceeds, or falls short of, the Par Score.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.30 5.31 17.4 Call of Over
  When 6 valid balls have been bowled and when the ball becomes dead, 
the umpire shall call Over before leaving the wicket. See also clause 20.3 
(Call of Over or Time).
 17.5 Umpire miscounting
 17.5.1 If the umpire miscounts the number of valid balls, the over as 
counted by the umpire shall stand.
 17.5.2 If, having miscounted, the umpire allows an over to continue 
after 6 valid balls have been bowled, he/she may subsequently 
call Over when the ball becomes dead after any delivery, even if 
that delivery is not a valid ball.
 17.5.3 Whenever possible, the third umpire shall liaise with the  
scorers	and	if	possible	inform	the	on-field	umpires	if	the	over	
has been miscounted.
 17.6 Bowler changing ends
  A bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as desired, provided 
he does not bowl two overs consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of 
two consecutive overs, in the same innings.
 17.7 Finishing an over
	 17.7.1	 Other	than	at	the	end	of	an	innings,	a	bowler	shall	finish	an	over	
in progress unless incapacitated or suspended under these 
Playing Conditions.
 17.7.2 If for any reason, other than the end of an innings, an over is left 
uncompleted at the start of an interval or interruption, it shall 
be completed on resumption of play.
 17.8 Bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over
  If for any reason a bowler is incapacitated while running up to deliver 
the	first	ball	of	an	over,	or	is	incapacitated	or	suspended	during	an	over,	
the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball. Another bowler shall complete 
the over from the same end, provided that he does not bowl two overs 
consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of two consecutive overs, in  
that innings.
 18 SCORING RUNS
 18.1 A run
  The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored
 18.1.1 so often as the batsmen, at any time while the ball is in play, 
have crossed and made good their ground from end to end.
 18.1.2 when a boundary is scored. See clause 19 (Boundaries).
 18.1.3 when Penalty runs are awarded. See clause18.6.
  16.8.2 If, at this call of Time, the overs have been completed and no 
Playing time remains, or if the side batting last has completed 
its innings, the umpires shall immediately inform both captains 
of the necessary corrections to the scores and to the result.
 16.9 Result not to be changed
  Once the umpires have agreed with the scorers the correctness of the 
scores	at	the	conclusion	of	the	match	–	see	clauses	2.15	(Correctness	of	
scores)	and	3.2	(Correctness	of	scores)	–	the	result	cannot	thereafter	  
be changed.
 16.10 Points 
  A points system shall not apply.
 17 THE OVER
 17.1 Number of balls
  The ball shall be bowled from each end alternately in overs of 6 balls.
 17.2 Start of an over
  An over has started when the bowler starts his run-up or, if there is no 
run-up,	starts	his	action	for	the	first	delivery	of	that	over.
 17.3 Validity of balls
 17.3.1 A ball shall not count as one of the 6 balls of the over unless it 
is delivered, even though, as in clause 41.16 (Non-striker leaving 
his ground early) a batsman may be dismissed or some other 
incident occurs without the ball having been delivered.
 17.3.2 A ball delivered by the bowler shall not count as one of the 6 
balls of the over
 17.3.2.1 if it is called dead, or is to be considered dead, before 
the striker has had an opportunity to play it. See 
clause 20.6 (Dead ball; ball counting as one of over).
 17.3.2.2 if it is called dead in the circumstances of clause 
20.4.2.6. Note also the special provisions of clause 
20.4.2.5. (Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball).
 17.3.2.3 if it is a No ball. See clause 21 (No ball).
 17.3.2.4 if it is a Wide. See clause 22 (Wide ball).
 17.3.2.5 when any of clauses 24.4 (Player returning without 
permission), 28.2 (Fielding the ball), 41.4 (Deliberate 
attempt to distract striker), or 41.5 (Deliberate 
distraction, deception or obstruction of batsman)  
is applied.
 17.3.3 Any deliveries other than those listed in clause 17.3.1 and 17.3.2 
shall be known as valid balls. Only valid balls shall count towards 
the 6 balls of the over.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.32 5.33 18.6 Runs awarded for penalties
  Runs shall be awarded for penalties under clauses 18.5 (Deliberate 
short runs), 21 (No ball), 22 (Wide ball), 24.4 (Player returning without 
permission), 26.4 (Penalties for contravention), 28.2 (Fielding the ball), 
28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side)	41	(Unfair	play) 	
and 42 (Players’ conduct). Note, however, the restrictions on the award of 
Penalty runs in clauses 23.3 (Leg byes not to be awarded), 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side)	and	34	(Hit	the	ball	twice).
 18.7 Runs scored for boundaries
  Runs shall be scored for boundary allowances under clause 19 (Boundaries).
 18.8 Runs scored when a batsman is dismissed
  When a batsman is dismissed, any runs for penalties awarded to either 
side shall stand.
  No other runs shall be credited to the batting side, except as follows.
	 18.8.1	 If	a	batsman	is	dismissed	Obstructing	the	field,	the	batting	side	
shall also score any runs completed before the offence.
  If, however, the obstruction prevented a catch being made, no 
runs other than penalties shall be scored.
 18.8.2 If a batsman is dismissed Run out, the batting side shall also 
score any runs completed before the wicket was put down.
 18.9 Runs scored when the ball becomes dead other than at the fall of a wicket
  When the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the fall of a 
wicket,	or	is	called	dead	by	an	umpire,	unless	there	is	specific	provision	
otherwise in these Playing Conditions, any runs for penalties awarded to 
either side shall be scored. Note however the provisions of clauses 23.3 
(Leg byes not to be awarded) and 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to 
the	fielding	side).
  Additionally the batting side shall be credited with all runs completed 
by the batsmen before the incident or call of Dead ball and the run in 
progress if the batsmen had already crossed at the instant of the incident 
or	call	of	Dead	ball.	Note	specifically,	however,	the	provisions	of	clause 	
41.5.8 (Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batsman).
 18.10 Crediting of runs scored
  Unless stated otherwise in these Playing Conditions,
 18.10.1 if the ball is struck by the bat, all runs scored by the batting side 
shall be credited to the striker, except for the following:
	 –		an	award	of	5	Penalty	runs,	which	shall	be	scored	as	Penalty	runs
	 –		the	one	run	penalty	for	a	No	ball,	which	shall	be	scored	as	a	
No balls extra.
 18.10.2 if the ball is not struck by the bat, runs shall be scored as Penalty 
runs, Byes, Leg byes, No ball extras or Wides as the case may 
be. If Byes or Leg byes accrue from a No ball, only the one run 
penalty for No ball shall be scored as such, and the remainder as 
Byes or Leg byes as appropriate. 18.2 Runs disallowed
  Wherever in these Playing Conditions provision is made for the scoring 
of runs or awarding of penalties, such runs and penalties will be subject 
to any provisions that may be applicable for the disallowance of runs or 
for the non-award of penalties.
  When runs are disallowed, the one run penalty for No ball or Wide shall 
stand and 5 run penalties shall be allowed, except for Penalty runs under 
clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 18.3 Short runs
 18.3.1 A run is short if a batsman fails to make good his ground in 
turning for a further run.
 18.3.2 Although a short run shortens the succeeding one, the latter if 
completed shall not be regarded as short. A striker setting off 
for	the	first	run	from	in	front	of	the	popping	crease	may	do	so	
also without penalty.
 18.4 Unintentional short runs
  Except in the circumstances of clause 18.5,
 18.4.1 if either batsman runs a short run, the umpire concerned shall, 
unless a boundary is scored, call and signal Short run as soon as 
the ball becomes dead and that run shall not be scored.
 18.4.2 if, after either or both batsmen run short, a boundary is scored 
the umpire concerned shall disregard the short running and shall 
not call or signal Short run.
 18.4.3 if both batsmen run short in one and the same run, this shall be 
regarded as only one short run.
 18.4.4 if more than one run is short then, subject to clauses 18.4.2 and 
18.4.3, all runs called as short shall not be scored.
 18.4.5 if there has been more than one short run, the umpire shall 
inform the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded.
 18.5 Deliberate short runs
 18.5.1 If either umpire considers that one or both batsmen deliberately 
ran short at that umpire’s end, the umpire concerned shall, 
when the ball is dead, call and signal Short run and inform the 
other umpire of what has occurred and apply clause 18.5.2.
 18.5.2 The bowler’s end umpire shall
 –  disallow all runs to the batting side
 –  return any not out batsman to his original end
 –  signal No ball or Wide to the scorers, if applicable
 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side
 –  award any other 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for 
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side)
 –  inform the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded, and
 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	practicable, 	
the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.34 5.35 19 BOUNDARIES
	 19.1	 Determining	the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play
 19.1.1 Before the toss, the umpires shall determine the boundary of 
the	field	of	play,	which	shall	be	fixed	for	the	duration	of	the	
match. See clause 2.3.4 (Consultation with Home Board).
 19.1.2 The boundary shall be determined such that no part of any sight-
screen,	will,	at	any	stage	of	the	match,	be	within	the	field	of	play.
 19.1.3 The aim shall be to maximize the size of the playing area at each 
venue. With respect to the size of the boundaries, no boundary 
shall be longer than 90 yards (82.29 meters), and no boundary 
should be shorter than 65 yards (59.43 metres) from the centre 
of the pitch to be used.
 19.1.4  At all times, there must be 3 yards (2.74 meters) from the 
boundary	rope	to	the	first	solid	object	(advertising	boards/LEDs,	
photographers, cameramen, dug outs, covers, perimeter fence) 
for the player’s safety run off.
 19.1.5  If the boundary is positioned less than 90 yards (82.29 meters) 
from the centre of the pitch, the boundary rope cannot be 
set at a distance of more than 10 yards (9.14 meters) from the 
perimeter fence. The 10 yards shall be inclusive of the 3 yards 
(2.74 meters) provided for the player’s safety run off.
 19.1.6 Any ground which has previously been approved to host 
international cricket which is unable to conform to the minimum 
boundary dimension shall be exempt. In such cases the boundary 
shall be positioned so as to maximize the size of the playing area.
 19.2 Identifying and marking the boundary
 19.2.1 All boundaries must be designated by a rope, or similar object of 
a minimum standard as authorised by the ICC from time to time.
 19.2.2 If the boundary is marked by means of an object that is in 
contact with the ground the boundary will be the edge of the 
grounded part of the object which is nearest the pitch.
	 19.2.3	 An	obstacle	within	the	field	of	play	shall	not	be	regarded	as	a	
boundary unless so determined by the umpires before the toss. 
See clause 2.3.4 (Consultation with Home Board).
 19.2.4 If an unauthorized person enters the playing arena and handles 
the ball, the umpire at the bowler’s end shall be the sole judge of 
whether the boundary allowance should be scored or the ball be 
treated as still in play or called dead ball if a batsman is liable to 
be out as a result of the unauthorized person handling the ball.
 19.3 Restoring the boundary
  If a solid object used to mark the boundary is disturbed for any  
reason, then:
 19.3.1 the boundary shall be considered to be in its original position.
 19.3.2 the object shall be returned to its original position as soon as 
is practicable; if play is taking place, this shall be as soon as the 
ball is dead. 18.10.3 the bowler shall be debited with:
	 –		all	runs	scored	by	the	striker
	 –		all	runs	scored	as	No	ball	extras
	 –		all	runs	scored	as	Wides.
 18.11 Batsman returning to original end
 18.11.1 When the striker is dismissed in any of the circumstances in 
clauses 18.11.1.1 to 18.11.1.5, the not out batsman shall return to his 
original end.
 18.11.1.1 Bowled.
 18.11.1.2 Stumped.
 18.11.1.3 Hit the ball twice.
 18.11.1.4 LBW.
 18.11.1.5 Hit wicket.
 18.11.2 The batsmen shall return to their original ends in any of the 
cases of clauses 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3.
 18.11.2.1 A boundary is scored.
 18.11.2.2 Runs are disallowed for any reason.
 18.11.2.3 A decision by the batsmen at the wicket to do so, 
under clause 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception or 
obstruction of batsman).
 18.12 Batsman returning to wicket he has left
 18.12.1 When a batsman is dismissed in any of the ways in clauses 
18.12.1.1 to 18.12.1.3, the not out batsman shall return to the wicket 
he has left but only if the batsmen had not already crossed at 
the instant of the incident causing the dismissal. If runs are to 
be disallowed, however, the not out batsman shall return to his 
original end.
 18.12.1.1 Caught.
	 18.12.1.2	 Obstructing	the	field.
 18.12.1.3 Run out.
 18.12.2 If, while a run is in progress, the ball becomes dead for any 
reason other than the dismissal of a batsman, the batsmen 
shall return to the wickets they had left, but only if they had 
not already crossed in running when the ball became dead. If, 
however, any of the circumstances of clauses 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3 
apply, the batsmen shall return to their original ends.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.36 5.37 19.7.3 When a boundary is scored, the batting side, except in the 
circumstances of clause 19.8, shall be awarded whichever is the 
greater of
 19.7.3.1 the allowance for the boundary
 19.7.3.2 the runs completed by the batsmen together with 
the run in progress if they had already crossed at the 
instant the boundary is scored.
 19.7.4 When the runs in clause 19.7.3.2 exceed the boundary allowance 
they shall replace the boundary allowance for the purposes of 
clause 18.12.
 19.7.5 The scoring of Penalty runs by either side is not affected by the 
scoring of a boundary.
	 19.8	 Overthrow	or	wilful	act	of	fielder
  If the boundary results from an overthrow or from the wilful act of a 
fielder,	the	runs	scored	shall	be
  any runs for penalties awarded to either side
  and the allowance for the boundary
  and the runs completed by the batsmen, together with the run in 
progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the throw or act.
  Clause 18.12.2 (Batsman returning to wicket he has left) shall apply as 
from the instant of the throw or act.
 20 DEAD BALL
 20.1 Ball is dead
 20.1.1 The ball becomes dead when
	 20.1.1.1	 it	is	finally	settled	in	the	hands	of	the	wicket-keeper	
or of the bowler.
 20.1.1.2 a boundary is scored. See clause 19.7 (Runs scored 
from boundaries).
 20.1.1.3 a batsman is dismissed. The ball will be deemed to  
be dead from the instant of the incident causing  
the dismissal.
 20.1.1.4 whether played or not it becomes trapped between 
the bat and person of a batsman or between items of 
his clothing or equipment.
 20.1.1.5 whether played or not it lodges in the clothing or 
equipment of a batsman or the clothing of an umpire.
 20.1.1.6 there is an award of Penalty runs under either of 
clauses 24.4 (Player returning without permission) or 
28.2 (Fielding the ball). The ball shall not count as one 
of the over.
 20.1.1.7 there is a contravention of clause 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 20.1.1.8 the match is concluded in any of the ways stated in 
clause 12.6 (Conclusion of match).	 19.3.3	 if	some	part	of	a	fence	or	other	marker	has	come	within	the	field	
of	play,	that	part	shall	be	removed	from	the	field	of	play	as	soon	
as is practicable; if play is taking place, this shall be as soon as 
the ball is dead.
 19.4 Ball grounded beyond the boundary
 19.4.1 The ball in play is grounded beyond the boundary if it touches
	 –		the	boundary	or	any	part	of	an	object	used	to	mark	the	boundary;
	 –		the	ground	beyond	the	boundary;
	 –		any	object	that	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary.
 19.4.2 The ball in play is to be regarded as being grounded beyond  
the boundary if
	 –		a	fielder,	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	as	in	clause	19.5,	
touches the ball;
	 –		a	fielder,	after	catching	the	ball	within	the	boundary,	
becomes grounded beyond the boundary while in contact 
with the ball, before completing the catch.
 19.5 Fielder grounded beyond the boundary
	 19.5.1	 A	fielder	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	if	some	part	of	his	
person is in contact with any of the following:
	 –		the	boundary	or	any	part	of	an	object	used	to	mark	 
the boundary;
	 –		the	ground	beyond	the	boundary;
	 –		any	object	that	is	in	contact	with	the	ground	beyond	 
the boundary;
	 –		another	fielder	who	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary.
	 19.5.2	 A	fielder	who	is	not	in	contact	with	the	ground	is	considered	to	
be	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	if	his	final	contact	with	the	
ground,	before	his	first	contact	with	the	ball	after	it	has	been	
delivered by the bowler, was not entirely within the boundary.
 19.6 Boundary allowances
 19.6.1 6 runs shall be allowed for a boundary 6; and 4 runs for a 
boundary 4. See also clause 19.7.
 19.7 Runs scored from boundaries
 19.7.1 A boundary 6 will be scored if and only if the ball has been struck 
by	the	bat	and	is	first	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	without 	
having	been	in	contact	with	the	ground	within	the	field	of	play. 	
This	shall	apply	even	if	the	ball	has	previously	touched	a	fielder.
 19.7.2 A boundary 4 will be scored when a ball that is grounded 
beyond the boundary
	 –		whether	struck	by	the	bat	or	not,	was	first	grounded	within	
the boundary, or
	 –		has	not	been	struck	by	the	bat.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.38 5.39 20.4.2.7 there is an instance of a deliberate attempt to distract 
under either of clauses 41.4 (Deliberate attempt 
to distract striker) or 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, 
deception or obstruction of batsman). The ball shall 
not count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.8 the bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery.
 20.4.2.9 the ball does not leave the bowler’s hand for 
any reason other than an attempt to run out the 
non-striker under clause 41.16 (Non-striker leaving his 
ground early).
	 20.4.2.10	 satisfied	that	the	ball	in	play	cannot	be	recovered.
 20.4.2.11 required to do so under any of the Playing Conditions 
not included above.
 20.5 Ball ceases to be dead
	 	 The	ball	ceases	to	be	dead	–	that	is,	it	comes	into	play	–	when	the	bowler 	
starts his run-up or, if there is no run-up, starts his bowling action.
 20.6 Dead ball; ball counting as one of over
 20.6.1 When a ball which has been delivered is called dead or is to be 
considered dead then, other than as in clause 20.6.2,
 20.6.1.1 it will not count in the over if the striker has not had 
an opportunity to play it.
 20.6.1.2 unless No ball or Wide ball has been called, it will be 
a valid ball if the striker has had an opportunity to 
play it, except in the circumstances of clauses 20.4.2.6 
and 24.4 ( Player returning without permission), 28.2 
(Fielding the ball), 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract 
striker) and 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception or 
obstruction of batsman).
 20.6.2 In clause 20.4.2.5, the ball will not count in the over only if both 
conditions of not attempting to play the ball and having an 
adequate reason for not being ready are met. Otherwise the 
delivery will be a valid ball.
 21 NO BALL
 21.1 Mode of delivery
 21.1.1 The umpire shall ascertain whether the bowler intends to bowl 
right handed or left handed, over or round the wicket, and shall 
so inform the striker.
  It is unfair if the bowler fails to notify the umpire of a change in 
his mode of delivery. In this case the umpire shall call and signal 
No ball.
 21.1.2 Underarm bowling shall not be permitted. 20.1.2 The ball shall be considered to be dead when it is clear to the 
bowler’s	end	umpire	that	the	fielding	side	and	both	batsmen	at	
the wicket have ceased to regard it as in play.
	 20.1.3	 In	a	match	where	cameras	are	being	used	on	or	over	the	field	
of play (e.g. Spidercam), should a ball that has been hit by the 
batsman make contact, while still in play, with the camera, its 
apparatus	or	its	cable,	either	umpire	shall	call	and	signal	‘dead	
ball’. The ball shall not count as one of the over and no runs shall 
be scored. If the delivery was called a No ball it shall count and 
the No ball penalty shall be applied. No other runs (including 
penalty runs) apart from the No ball penalty shall be scored.
	 20.1.4	 Should	a	ball	thrown	by	a	fielder	make	contact	with	a	camera	on	
or	over	the	field	of	play,	its	apparatus	or	its	cable,	either	umpire	
shall call and signal dead ball. Unless this was already a No ball 
or Wide, the ball shall count as one of the over. All runs scored 
to that point shall count, plus the run in progress if the batsmen 
have already crossed.
 20.1.5 Refer also to paragraph 2.6 of Appendix D.
	 20.2	 Ball	finally	settled
	 	 Whether	the	ball	is	finally	settled	or	not	is	a	matter	for	the	umpire	alone	
to decide.
 20.3 Call of Over or Time
  Neither the call of Over (see clause 17.4), nor the call of Time (see clause 
12.2) is to be made until the ball is dead, either under clauses 20.1 or 20.4.
 20.4 Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball
 20.4.1 When the ball has become dead under clause 20.1, the bowler’s 
end umpire may call and signal Dead ball if it is necessary to 
inform the players.
 20.4.2 Either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball when
 20.4.2.1 intervening in a case of unfair play.
 20.4.2.2 a possibly serious injury to a player or umpire occurs.
 20.4.2.3 leaving his/her normal position for consultation.
 20.4.2.4 one or both bails fall from the striker’s wicket before 
the striker has had the opportunity of playing the ball.
 20.4.2.5 the striker is not ready for the delivery of the ball and, 
if the ball is delivered, makes no attempt to play it. 
Provided	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	the	striker	had	
adequate reason for not being ready, the ball shall not 
count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.6 the striker is distracted by any noise or movement 
or in any other way while preparing to receive, or 
receiving a delivery. This shall apply whether the 
source of the distraction is within the match or 
outside it. Note also clause 20.4.2.7. The ball shall not 
count as one of the over.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.40 5.41 21.4 Bowler throwing towards striker’s end before delivery
  If the bowler throws the ball towards the striker’s end before entering 
the delivery stride, either umpire shall call and signal No ball. See clause 
41.17 (Batsmen stealing a run).
	 	 However,	the	procedure	stated	in	clause	21.3	of	caution,	informing,	final	
warning, action against the bowler and reporting shall not apply.
 21.5 Fair delivery – the feet
  For a delivery to be fair in respect of the feet, in the delivery stride
 21.5.1 the bowler’s back foot must land within and not touching the 
return crease appertaining to his stated mode of delivery.
 21.5.2 the bowler’s front foot must land with some part of the foot, 
whether grounded or raised
 -  on the same side of the imaginary line joining the two middle 
stumps as the return crease described in clause 21.5.1, and
 -  behind the popping crease.
	 	 If	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	is	satisfied	that	any	of	these	three	
conditions have not been met, he/she shall call and signal No 
ball. See clause 41.8 (Bowling of deliberate front foot No ball).
 21.6 Bowler breaking wicket in delivering ball
  Either umpire shall call and signal No ball if, other than in an attempt to 
run out the non-striker under clause 41.16, the bowler breaks the wicket 
at any time after the ball comes into play and before completion of the 
stride after the delivery stride. This shall include any clothing or other 
object that falls from his person and breaks the wicket.
 21.7 Ball bouncing more than once, rolling along the ground or pitching 
off the pitch
  The umpire shall call and signal No ball if a ball which he/she considers 
to have been delivered, without having previously touched bat or 
person of the striker,
 –  bounces more than once.
 –  or rolls along the ground before it reaches the popping crease.
 –		or	pitches	wholly	or	partially	off	the	pitch	as	defined	in	clause	6.1	
(Area of pitch) before it reaches the line of the striker’s wicket.
 21.8 Ball coming to rest in front of striker’s wicket
  If a ball delivered by the bowler comes to rest in front of the line of the 
striker’s wicket, without having previously touched the bat or person of 
the striker, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and immediately call 
and signal Dead ball.
 21.9 Fielder intercepting a delivery
  If, except in the circumstances of clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper) 
a	ball	delivered	by	the	bowler,	makes	contact	with	any	part	of	a	fielder’s	
person before it either makes contact with the striker’s bat or person, or 
it passes the striker’s wicket, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and 
immediately call and signal Dead ball. 21.2 Fair delivery – the arm
  For a delivery to be fair in respect of the arm the ball must not be 
delivered with an Illegal Bowling Action.
	 	 An	Illegal	Bowling	Action	is	defined	as	a	bowling	action	where	a	
bowler’s Elbow Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured from the point 
at which the bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the point at which 
the ball is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for 
the purposes of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).
  Should either umpire or the ICC Match Referee suspect that a bowler 
has used an Illegal Bowling Action, they shall complete the ICC Bowling 
Action Report Form at the conclusion of the match, as set out in the 
Illegal Bowling Regulations.
 21.3 Ball thrown or delivered underarm – action by umpires
 21.3.1 If, in the opinion of either umpire, the ball has been thrown 
(where such mode of delivery does not correspond to the 
bowler’s normal bowling action) or delivered underarm, he/she 
shall call and signal No ball and, when the ball is dead, inform 
the other umpire of the reason for the call.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		warn	the	bowler,	indicating	that	this	is	a	first	and	final	
warning. This warning shall apply to that bowler throughout 
the innings.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	reason	for	 
this action.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen	at	the	wicket	of	what	has	occurred.
 21.3.2 If either umpire considers that, in that innings, a further delivery 
by the same bowler is thrown (where such mode of delivery 
does not correspond to the bowler’s normal bowling action) 
or delivered underarm, he/she shall call and signal No ball and 
when the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the reason for 
the call.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	
immediately from bowling. The over shall, if applicable, be 
completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled 
the previous over or part thereof nor be allowed to bowl any 
part of the next over. The bowler thus suspended shall not 
bowl again in that innings.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen	at	the	wicket	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	
the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action.
 21.3.3 The umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as 
possible after the match to the ICC Match Referee, who shall 
take such action as is considered appropriate against the  
bowler concerned.
 ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.42 5.43 21.19 Free Hit 
 21.19.1 In addition to the above, the delivery following a No ball called 
(all modes of No ball) shall be a free hit for whichever batsman 
is facing it. If the delivery for the free hit is not a legitimate 
delivery (any kind of No ball or a Wide) then the next delivery 
will become a free hit for whichever batsman is facing it. 
 21.19.2 For any free hit, the striker can be dismissed only under the 
circumstances that apply for a No ball, even if the delivery for the 
free hit is called Wide. 
	 21.19.3	 Neither	field	changes	nor	the	exchange	of	individuals	between	
fielding	positions	are	permitted	for	free	hit	deliveries	unless:
 21.19.3.1 There is a change of striker (the provisions of clause 
41.2 shall apply), or
	 21.19.3.2	 The	No	ball	was	the	result	of	a	fielding	restriction	
breach,	in	which	case	the	field	may	be	changed	to	the	
extent of correcting the breach.
 21.19.4 For clarity, the bowler can change his mode of delivery for the 
free hit delivery. In such circumstances Clause 21.1 shall apply.
 21.19.5 The umpires will signal a free hit by (after the normal No ball 
signal) extending one arm straight upwards and moving it in a 
circular motion.
 22 WIDE BALL
 22.1 Judging a Wide
 22.1.1 If the bowler bowls a ball, not being a No ball, the umpire shall 
adjudge	it	a	Wide	if,	according	to	the	definition	in	clause	22.1.2
 22.1.1.1 the ball passes wide of where the striker is standing 
and which also would have passed wide of the striker 
standing in a normal guard position.
 22.1.1.2 the ball passes above the head height of the striker 
standing upright at the popping crease.
 22.1.2 The ball will be considered as passing wide of the striker unless it 
is	sufficiently	within	reach	for	him	to	be	able	to	hit	it	with	the	bat	
by means of a normal cricket stroke.
 22.1.3 Umpires are instructed to apply very strict and consistent 
interpretation in regard to this clause in order to prevent 
negative bowling wide of the wicket.
 22.2 Call and signal of Wide ball
  If the umpire adjudges a delivery to be a Wide he/she shall call and signal 
Wide ball as soon as the ball passes the striker’s wicket. It shall, however, 
be considered to have been a Wide from the instant that the bowler 
entered his delivery stride, even though it cannot be called Wide until it 
passes the striker’s wicket. 21.10 Ball bouncing over head height of striker
  See clauses 22.1.1.2 and 41.6.1.7.
 21.11 Call of No ball for infringement of other Playing Conditions
  In addition to the instances above, No ball is to be called and signalled 
as required by the following clauses:
	 	 Clause	27.3	–	Position	of	wicket-keeper.
		 	 Clause	28.4	–	Limitation	of	on	side	fielders.
		 	 Clause	28.5	–	Fielders	not	to	encroach	on	pitch.
		 	 Clause	41.6	–	Bowling	of	dangerous	and	unfair	short	pitched	deliveries.
		 	 Clause	41.7	–	Bowling	of	dangerous	and	unfair	non-pitching	deliveries.
		 	 Clause	41.8	–	Bowling	of	deliberate	front	foot	No	ball.
 21.12 Revoking a call of No ball
  An umpire shall revoke the call of No ball if Dead ball is called under any 
of clauses 20.4.2.4 to 20.4.2.9 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball). 
However, if a no ball is called in breach of clause 20.4.2.7 (41.4 - Deliberate 
attempt	to	distract	striker	before	playing	the	ball	or	41.5	–	Deliberate 	
attempt of Distraction, Deception or Obstruction of striker after the 
stroke) the No ball will stand.
 21.13 No ball to over-ride Wide
  A call of No ball shall over-ride the call of Wide ball at any time. See 
clauses 22.1(Judging a Wide) and 22.2 (Call and signal of Wide ball).
 21.14 Ball not dead
  The ball does not become dead on the call of No ball.
 21.15 Penalty for a No ball
  A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of No ball. 
Unless the call is revoked, the penalty shall stand even if a batsman is 
dismissed. It shall be in addition to any other runs scored, any boundary 
allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.
 21.16 Runs resulting from a No ball – how scored
  The one run penalty shall be scored as a No ball extra and shall be 
debited against the bowler. If other Penalty runs have been awarded to 
either side these shall be scored as stated in clause 41.18 (Penalty runs). 
Any runs completed by the batsmen or any boundary allowance shall be 
credited to the striker if the ball has been struck by the bat; otherwise 
they shall also be scored as Byes or Leg byes as appropriate.
 21.17 No ball not to count
  A No ball shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of balls).
 21.18 Out from a No ball
  When No ball has been called, neither batsman shall be out under any 
of the Playing Conditions except clause 34 (Hit the ball twice), clause 37 
(Obstructing	the	field)	or	clause	38	(Run	out).ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.44 5.45 23.2 Leg byes
	 23.2.1	 If	a	ball	delivered	by	the	bowler	first	strikes	the	person	of	the	
striker,	runs	shall	be	scored	only	if	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	
the striker has
  either attempted to play the ball with the bat
  or tried to avoid being hit by the ball.
	 23.2.2	 If	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	either	of	these	conditions	has	been	
met runs shall be scored as follows.
 23.2.2.1 If there is
  either no subsequent contact with the striker’s bat or 
person, or
  only inadvertent contact with the striker’s bat or person
  any runs completed by the batsmen or a boundary 
allowance shall be credited to the striker in the case 
of subsequent contact with his bat but otherwise to 
the batting side as in clause 23.2.3.
 23.2.2.2 If the striker wilfully makes a lawful second strike, 
clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once) and 
clause 34.4 (Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck 
more than once) shall apply.
 23.2.3 The runs in clause 23.2.2.1, unless credited to the striker, shall be 
scored as Leg byes.
  Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run penalty for 
the No ball shall be incurred.
 23.3 Leg byes not to be awarded
  If in the circumstance of clause 23.2.1 the umpire considers that neither of 
the conditions therein has been met, then Leg byes shall not be awarded.
  If the ball does not become dead for any other reason, the umpire shall 
call and signal Dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at 
the	completion	of	the	first	run.
  The umpire shall then:
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side;
	 –		return	any	not	out	batsman	to	his	original	end;
	 –		signal	No	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable;
	 –		award	any	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	Penalty	runs	
under	clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side). 22.3 Revoking a call of Wide ball
 22.3.1 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if there is then any 
contact between the ball and the striker’s bat or person before 
the	ball	comes	into	contact	with	any	fielder.
 22.3.2 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if a delivery is 
called a No ball. See clause 21.13 (No ball to over-ride Wide).
 22.4 Delivery not a Wide
 22.4.1 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide, if the 
striker, by moving, either causes the ball to pass wide of him, as 
defined	in	clause	22.1.2	or	brings	the	ball	sufficiently	within	reach	
to be able to hit it by means of a normal cricket stroke.
 22.4.2 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide if the 
ball touches the striker’s bat or person, but only as the ball 
passes the striker.
 22.5 Ball not dead
  The ball does not become dead on the call of Wide ball.
 22.6 Penalty for a Wide
  A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of Wide ball. 
Unless the call is revoked, see clause 22.3, this penalty shall stand even if 
a batsman is dismissed, and shall be in addition to any other runs scored, 
any boundary allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.
 22.7 Runs resulting from a Wide – how scored
  All runs completed by the batsmen or a boundary allowance, together 
with the penalty for the Wide, shall be scored as Wide balls. Apart from 
any award of 5 Penalty runs, all runs resulting from a Wide shall be 
debited against the bowler.
 22.8 Wide not to count
  A Wide shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of 
balls).
 22.9 Out from a Wide
  When Wide ball has been called, neither batsman shall be out under 
any of the Playing Conditions except clause 35 (Hit wicket), clause 37 
(Obstructing	the	field),	clause	38	(Run	out)	or	clause	39	(Stumped).
 23 BYE AND LEG BYE
 23.1 Byes
  If the ball, delivered by the bowler, not being a Wide, passes the striker 
without touching his bat or person, any runs completed by the batsmen 
from that delivery, or a boundary allowance, shall be credited as Byes 
to the batting side. Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run 
penalty for such a delivery shall be incurred.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.46 5.47 24.2.3.2 The player shall not be permitted to bat in the match 
until his team’s batting innings has been in progress 
for the length of playing time that is equal to the 
unexpired Penalty time carried forward from the 
previous	innings.	However,	once	his	side	has	lost	five	
wickets in its batting innings, he may bat immediately. 
If any unexpired penalty time remains at the end of 
that batting innings, it is carried forward to the next 
and subsequent innings of the match.
	 24.2.4	 If	the	player	leaves	the	field	before	having	served	all	of	his	Penalty 	
time, the balance is carried forward as unserved Penalty time.
 24.2.5 On any occasion of absence, the amount of playing time for 
which	the	player	is	off	the	field	shall	be	added	to	any	Penalty	
time that remains unserved, subject to a maximum cumulative 
Penalty time of 40 minutes, and that player shall not bowl until 
all of his Penalty time has been served.
 24.2.6 For the purposes of clauses 24.2.3.1 and 24.2.3.2, playing time 
shall comprise the time play is in progress excluding intervals 
between innings. For clarity, a player’s Penalty time will 
continue to expire after he is dismissed, for the remainder of his 
team’s batting innings.
 24.2.7 If there is an unscheduled break in play, the stoppage time shall 
count as Penalty time served, provided that,
	 24.2.7.1	 the	fielder	who	was	on	the	field	of	play	at	the	start	of	
the	break	either	takes	the	field	on	the	resumption	of	
play, or his side is now batting.
	 24.2.7.2	 the	fielder	who	was	already	off	the	field	at	the	start	
of	the	break	notifies	an	umpire	in	person	as	soon	as	
he	is	able	to	participate,	and	either	takes	the	field	
on the resumption of play, or his side is now batting. 
Stoppage	time	before	an	umpire	has	been	so	notified	
shall not count towards unserved Penalty time.
 24.2.8 Any unserved Penalty time shall be carried forward into the 
next innings of the match, as applicable.
 24.3 Penalty time not incurred
  A nominated player’s absence will not incur Penalty time if,
 24.3.1 he has suffered an external blow during the match and, as a 
result,	has	justifiably	left	the	field	or	is	unable	to	take	the	field.
 24.3.2 in the opinion of the umpires, the player has been absent or has 
left	the	field	for	other	wholly	acceptable	reasons,	which	shall	
not include illness or internal injury.
	 24.3.3	 the	player	is	absent	from	the	field	for	a	period	of	8	minutes	or	less. 24 FIELDER’S ABSENCE; SUBSTITUTES
	 24.1	 Substitute	fielders
	 24.1.1	 The	umpires	shall	allow	a	substitute	fielder
	 24.1.1.1	 if	they	are	satisfied	that	a	fielder	has	been	injured	or	
become ill and that this occurred during the match, or
 24.1.1.2 for any other wholly acceptable reason.
  In all other circumstances, a substitute is not allowed.
 24.1.2 A substitute shall not bowl or act as captain but may act as 
wicket-keeper only with the consent of the umpires. Note, 
however, clause 42.4.1.
	 24.1.3	 A	nominated	player	may	bowl	or	field	even	though	a	substitute	
has previously acted for him, subject to clauses 24.2 and 24.3.
	 24.1.4	 Squad	members	of	the	fielding	or	batting	team	who	are	not	
playing in the match and who are not acting as substitute 
fielders	shall	be	required	to	wear	a	team	training	bib	whilst	on	
the playing area (including the area between the boundary and 
the perimeter fencing).
	 24.2	 Fielder	absent	or	leaving	the	field	of	play
	 24.2.1	 A	player	going	briefly	outside	the	boundary	while	carrying	out	
any	duties	as	a	fielder	is	not	absent	from	the	field	of	play	nor,	for	
the purposes of this clause, is he to be regarded as having left 
the	field	of	play.
	 24.2.2	 If	a	fielder	fails	to	take	the	field	at	the	start	of	play	or	at	any	later	
time,	or	leaves	the	field	during	play,
 24.2.2.1 an umpire shall be informed of the reason for  
this absence.
	 24.2.2.2	 he	shall	not	thereafter	come	on	to	the	field	of	play	
during a session of play without the consent of the 
umpire. See clause 24.4. The umpire shall give such 
consent as soon as it is practicable.
	 24.2.3	 If	a	player	is	absent	from	the	field	for	longer	than	8	minutes,	the	
following restrictions shall apply to their future participation in 
the match:
 24.2.3.1 The player shall not be permitted to bowl in the 
match	until	he	has	either	been	able	to	field,	or	his	
team has subsequently been batting, for the total 
length of playing time for which the player was 
absent (hereafter referred to as Penalty time). A 
player’s unexpired Penalty time shall be limited to a 
maximum of 40 minutes. If any unexpired Penalty time 
remains at the end of an innings, it is carried forward 
to the next and subsequent innings of the match.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.48 5.49 25.4.4 If after retiring a batsman resumes his innings, subject to the 
requirements of clauses 25.4.2 and 25.4.3, it shall be only at the 
fall of a wicket or the retirement of another batsman.
 25.5 Runners
  Runners shall not be permitted.
 26 PRACTICE ON THE FIELD
 26.1 Practice on the pitch or the rest of the square
 26.1.1 There shall not be any practice on the pitch at any time.
 26.1.2 There shall not be any practice on the rest of the square at any 
time except with the approval of the umpires.
 26.1.2.1 If approved by the umpires, the use of the square for 
practice on any day of any match will be restricted to 
any	netted	practice	area	or	bowling	strips	specifically	
prepared on the edge of the square for that purpose.
 26.1.2.2 Bowling practice on the bowling strips referred to 
above shall also be permitted during the interval 
(and change of innings if not the interval) unless the 
umpires consider that, in the prevailing conditions 
of ground and weather, it will be detrimental to the 
surface of the square.
	 26.2	 Practice	on	the	outfield
 26.2.1 On any day of the match, all forms of practice are permitted on 
the	outfield
	 –		before	the	start	of	play;
	 –		after	the	close	of	play;	and
	 –		during	the	interval	or	between	innings
	 	 providing	the	umpires	are	satisfied	that	such	practice	will	not	
cause	significant	deterioration	in	the	condition	of	the	outfield.
 26.2.2 Between the call of Play and the call of Time, practice shall be 
permitted	on	the	outfield,	providing	that	all	of	the	following	
conditions are met:
	 –		only	the	fielders	as	defined	in	paragraph	7	of	Appendix	A	
participate in such practice.
	 –		no	ball	other	than	the	match	ball	is	used	for	this	practice.
	 –		no	bowling	practice	takes	place	in	the	area	between	the	square 	
and the boundary in a direction parallel to the match pitch.
	 –		the	umpires	are	satisfied	that	it	will	not	contravene	either	
of clauses 41.3 (The match ball changing its condition) or 41.9 
(Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	side).
	 	 Bowling	a	ball,	using	a	short	run	up	to	a	player	in	the	outfield	is	
not to be regarded as bowling practice but shall be subject to 
the other conditions in this clause. 24.4 Player returning without permission
	 	 If	a	player	comes	on	to	the	field	of	play	in	contravention	of	clause	24.2.2	
and comes into contact with the ball while it is in play, the ball shall 
immediately become dead.
 –  The umpire shall award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.
 –  Runs completed by the batsmen shall be scored together with the run 
in progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
 –  The ball shall not count as one of the over.
 –		The	umpire	shall	inform	the	other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	
side, the batsmen and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the 
batting side of the reason for this action.
 25 BATSMAN’S INNINGS
 25.1 Eligibility to act as a batsman
  Only a nominated player may bat and, subject to clause 25.3, may do so 
even	though	a	substitute	fielder	has	previously	acted	for	him.
 25.2 Commencement of a batsman’s innings
	 	 The	innings	of	the	first	two	batsmen,	and	that	of	any	new	batsman	on	
the resumption of play after a call of Time, shall commence at the call of 
Play. At any other time, a batsman’s innings shall be considered to have 
commenced	when	that	batsman	first	steps	onto	the	field	of	play.
 25.3 Restriction on batsman commencing an innings
 25.3.1 If a member of the batting side has unserved Penalty time, (see 
clause 24.2.7), that player shall not be permitted to bat until that 
Penalty time has been served. However, even if the unserved 
Penalty time has not expired, that player may bat after his side 
has lost 5 wickets.
 25.3.2 A member of the batting side’s Penalty time is served during 
Playing time. In the event of an unscheduled stoppage, the 
stoppage	time	after	the	batsman	notifies	an	umpire	in	person	
that he is able to participate shall count as Penalty time served. 
 25.4 Batsman retiring
 25.4.1 A batsman may retire at any time during his innings when the 
ball is dead. The umpires, before allowing play to proceed, shall 
be informed of the reason for a batsman retiring.
 25.4.2 If a batsman retires because of illness, injury or any other 
unavoidable cause, that batsman is entitled to resume his 
innings. If for any reason this does not happen, that batsman is 
to	be	recorded	as	‘Retired	–	not	out’.
 25.4.3 If a batsman retires for any reason other than as in clause 25.4.2, 
the innings of that batsman may be resumed only with the 
consent of the opposing captain. If for any reason his innings is 
not	resumed,	that	batsman	is	to	be	recorded	as	‘Retired	–	out’.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.50 5.51 27.2.3 The top edge of the webbing shall not protrude beyond the 
straight	line	joining	the	top	of	the	index	finger	to	the	top	of	the	
thumb and shall be taut when a hand wearing the glove has the 
thumb fully extended. See paragraph 3 of Appendix B.
 27.3 Position of wicket-keeper
 27.3.1 The wicket-keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket at the 
striker’s end from the moment the ball comes into play until a 
ball delivered by the bowler
  touches the bat or person of the striker; or
  passes the wicket at the striker’s end; or
  the striker attempts a run.
 27.3.2 In the event of the wicket-keeper contravening this clause, 
the striker’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball as soon as 
applicable after the delivery of the ball.
 27.4 Movement by wicket-keeper
 27.4.1 After the ball comes into play and before it reaches the striker, 
it	is	unfair	if	the	wicket-keeper	significantly	alters	his	position	in	
relation to the striker’s wicket, except for the following:
 27.4.1.1 movement of a few paces forward for a slower 
delivery, unless in so doing it brings him within reach 
of the wicket.
 27.4.1.2 lateral movement in response to the direction in 
which the ball has been delivered.
 27.4.1.3 movement in response to the stroke that the striker is 
playing or that his actions suggest he intends to play. 
However the provisions of clause 27.3 shall apply.
 27.4.2 In the event of unfair movement by the wicket-keeper, either 
umpire shall call and signal Dead ball.
 27.5 Restriction on actions of wicket-keeper
  If, in the opinion of either umpire, the wicket-keeper interferes with 
the striker’s right to play the ball and to guard his wicket, clause 20.4.2.6 
(Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball) shall apply.
  If, however, either umpire considers that the interference by the wicket-
keeper was wilful, then clause 41.1 (Deliberate attempt to distract 
striker) shall also apply.
 27.6 Interference with wicket-keeper by striker
  If, in playing at the ball or in the legitimate defence of his wicket, the 
striker interferes with the wicket-keeper, he shall not be out except as 
provided for in clause 37.3 (Obstructing a ball from being caught). 26.3 Trial run-up
  A bowler is permitted to have a trial run-up provided the umpire is 
satisfied	that	it	will	not	contravene	either	of	clauses	41.9	(Time	wasting	
by	the	fielding	side)	or	41.12	(Fielder	damaging	the	pitch).
 26.4 Penalties for contravention
  All forms of practice are subject to the provisions of clauses 41.3 (The 
match	ball	–	changing	its	condition),	41.9	(Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	
side) and 41.12 (Fielder damaging the pitch).
 26.4.1 If there is a contravention of any of the provisions of clause 26.1 
or 26.2, the umpire shall
	 –		warn	the	player	that	the	practice	is	not	permitted;
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	both	
captains of the reason for this action.
 26.4.1.1 If the contravention is by a batsman at the wicket, 
the umpire shall inform the other batsman and each 
incoming batsman that the warning has been issued. 
The warning shall apply to the team of that player 
throughout the match.
 26.4.2 If during the match there is any further contravention by any 
player of that team, the umpire shall
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	opposing	side;
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire,	the	scorers	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, both captains, and, if the contravention is during 
play, the batsmen at the wicket.
 27 THE WICKET-KEEPER
 27.1 Protective equipment
	 	 The	wicket-keeper	is	the	only	fielder	permitted	to	wear	gloves	and 	
external leg guards. If these are worn, they are to be regarded as part 
of his person for the purposes of clause 28.2 (Fielding the ball). If by the 
wicket-keeper’s actions and positioning when the ball comes into play it 
is apparent to the umpires that he will not be able to carry out the normal 
duties of a wicket-keeper, he shall forfeit this right and also the right to 
be recognised as a wicket-keeper for the purposes of clauses 33.2 (A fair 
catch), 39 (Stumped), 28.1 (Protective equipment), 28.4 (Limitation of 
on-side	fielders)	and	28.5	(Fielders	not	to	encroach	on	pitch).
 27.2 Gloves
 27.2.1 If, as permitted under clause 27.1, the wicket-keeper wears 
gloves,	they	shall	have	no	webbing	between	the	fingers	except	
joining	index	finger	and	thumb,	where	webbing	may	be	inserted	
as a means of support.
 27.2.2 If used, the webbing shall be a single piece of non-stretch 
material which, although it may have facing material attached, 
shall have no reinforcements or tucks.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.52 5.53 28.3.2.3 any runs completed by the batsmen before the 
ball strikes the protective helmet shall be scored, 
together with the run in progress if the batsmen had 
already crossed at the instant of the ball striking the 
protective helmet.
 28.3.3 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described in 
clause 28.3.1, unless the circumstances of clause 23.3 (Leg byes 
not to be awarded) or clause 34 (Hit the ball twice), apply, the 
umpire shall:
	 –		permit	the	batsmen’s	runs	as	in	clause	28.3.2.3	to	be	scored
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	as	in	clause	28.3.2.2
	 –		award	any	other	Penalty	runs	due	to	the	batting	side.
 28.3.4 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described 
in clause 28.3.1, and the circumstances of clause 23.3 (Leg byes 
not to be awarded) or clause 34 (Hit the ball twice) apply, the 
umpire shall:
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side
	 –		return	any	not	out	batsman	to	his	original	end
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable
	 –		award	any	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	Penalty	
runs under clause 28.3.2.
	 28.4	 Limitation	of	on	side	fielders
	 28.4.1	 At	the	instant	of	delivery,	there	may	not	be	more	than	5	fielders	
on the leg side.
 28.4.2 At the instant of the bowler’s delivery there shall not be more 
than	two	fielders,	other	than	the	wicket-keeper,	behind	the	
popping	crease	on	the	on	side.	A	fielder	will	be	considered	to	
be behind the popping crease unless the whole of his person 
whether grounded or in the air is in front of this line.
	 28.4.3	 In	the	event	of	infringement	of	this	clause	by	any	fielder,	the	
striker’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball.
 28.5 Fielders not to encroach on pitch
  While the ball is in play and until the ball has made contact with the 
striker’s	bat	or	person,	or	has	passed	the	striker’s	bat,	no	fielder,	other	
than the bowler, may have any part of his person grounded on or 
extended over the pitch.
	 	 In	the	event	of	infringement	of	this	clause	by	any	fielder	other	than	the	
wicket-keeper, the bowler’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball as 
soon as possible after delivery of the ball. Note, however, clause 27.3 
(Position of wicket-keeper). 28 THE FIELDER
 28.1 Protective equipment
	 	 No	fielder	other	than	the	wicket-keeper	shall	be	permitted	to	wear	
gloves or external leg guards. In addition, protection for the hand or 
fingers	may	be	worn	only	with	the	consent	of	the	umpires.
 28.2 Fielding the ball
	 28.2.1	 A	fielder	may	field	the	ball	with	any	part	of	his	person	(see	
paragraph 12 of Appendix A), except as in clause 28.2.1.2. 
However,	he	will	be	deemed	to	have	fielded	the	ball	illegally	if,	
while the ball is in play he wilfully
	 28.2.1.1	 uses	anything	other	than	part	of	his	person	to	field	
the ball.
 28.2.1.2 extends his clothing with his hands and uses this to 
field	the	ball.
 28.2.1.3 discards a piece of clothing, equipment or any other 
object which subsequently makes contact with the ball.
	 28.2.2	 It	is	not	illegal	fielding	if	the	ball	in	play	makes	contact	with	a	
piece of clothing, equipment or any other object which has 
accidentally	fallen	from	the	fielder’s	person.
	 28.2.3	 If	a	fielder	illegally	fields	the	ball,	the	ball	shall	immediately	
become dead and
	 –		the	penalty	for	a	No	ball	or	a	Wide	shall	stand.
	 –		any	runs	completed	by	the	batsmen	shall	be	credited	to	the	
batting side, together with the run in progress if the batsmen 
had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
	 –		the	ball	shall	not	count	as	one	of	the	over.
 In addition the umpire shall:
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	and	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
of the reason for this action.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	the	captain	
of the batting side of what has occurred.
	 28.3	 Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side
	 28.3.1	 Protective	helmets,	when	not	in	use	by	fielders,	may	not	be	
placed on the ground, above the surface except behind the 
wicket-keeper and in line with both sets of stumps.
 28.3.2 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described in 
clause 28.3.1,
 28.3.2.1 the ball shall become dead
  and, subject to clause 28.3.3,
 28.3.2.2 an award of 5 Penalty runs shall be made to the 
batting side;ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.54 5.55 28.7.6 In circumstances when the number of overs of the batting team 
is reduced, the number of Powerplay overs shall be reduced 
in accordance with the table below. For the sake of clarity, it 
should be noted that the table shall apply to both the 1st and 
2nd innings of the match. 
TOTAL  
OVERS IN  
INNINGSNUMBER OF OVERS FOR WHICH FIELDING 
RESTRICTIONS IN CLAUSES 28.7.2 AND 28.7.4 
ABOVE WILL APPLY
5-8 2
9-11 3
12-14 4
15-18 5
19-20 6
 28.7.7 If an innings is interrupted during an over and if on the 
resumption of play, due to the reduced number of overs of the 
batting team, the required number of Powerplay overs have 
already been bowled, the remaining deliveries in the over to be 
completed	shall	not	be	subject	to	the	fielding	restrictions.
	 28.7.8	 In	the	event	of	an	infringement	of	any	of	the	above	fielding	
restrictions, the square leg umpire shall call and signal No ball.
 29 THE WICKET IS DOWN
 29.1 Wicket put down
 29.1.1 The wicket is put down if a bail is completely removed from the 
top of the stumps, or a stump is struck out of the ground,
 29.1.1.1 by the ball,
 29.1.1.2 by the striker’s bat if held or by any part of the bat 
that he is holding,
 29.1.1.3 for the purpose of this clause only, by the striker’s 
bat not in hand, or by any part of the bat which has 
become detached,
 29.1.1.4 by the striker’s person or by any part of his clothing or 
equipment becoming detached from his person,
	 29.1.1.5	 by	a	fielder	with	his	hand	or	arm,	providing	that	the	
ball is held in the hand or hands so used, or in the 
hand of the arm so used.
	 29.1.1.6	 The	wicket	is	also	put	down	if	a	fielder	strikes	or	pulls	
a stump out of the ground as in clause 29.1.1.5.
 29.1.2 The disturbance of a bail, whether temporary or not, shall not 
constitute its complete removal from the top of the stumps, but 
if a bail in falling lodges between two of the stumps this shall be 
regarded as complete removal.	 28.6	 Movement	by	any	fielder	other	than	the	wicket-keeper
	 28.6.1	 Any	movement	by	any	fielder,	excluding	the	wicket-keeper,	
after the ball comes into play and before the ball reaches the 
striker, is unfair except for the following:
 28.6.1.1 minor adjustments to stance or position in relation to 
the striker’s wicket.
	 28.6.1.2	 movement	by	any	fielder,	other	than	a	close	fielder,	
towards the striker or the striker’s wicket that does 
not	significantly	alter	the	position	of	the	fielder.
	 28.6.1.3	 movement	by	any	fielder	in	response	to	the	stroke	
that the striker is playing or that his actions suggest 
he intends to play.
	 28.6.2	 In	all	circumstances	clause	28.4	(Limitation	of	on	side	fielders)	
shall apply.
 28.6.3 In the event of such unfair movement, either umpire shall call 
and signal Dead ball.
 28.6.4 Note also the provisions of clause 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to 
distract striker). See also clause 27.4 (Movement by wicket-keeper).
	 28.7	 Restrictions	on	the	placement	of	fielders	
 28.7.1 In addition to the restrictions contained in clause 28.4 above, 
further	fielding	restrictions	shall	apply	to	certain	overs	in	each 	
innings.	The	nature	of	such	fielding	restrictions	 and	the	overs	during	
which they shall apply are set out in the following paragraphs. 
	 28.7.2	 Subject	to	28.7.6	below	these	additional	fielding	restrictions	
shall	apply	to	the	first	6	overs	of	each	innings	(Powerplay	overs).
	 28.7.3	 Two	semi-circles	shall	be	drawn	on	the	field	of	play.	The	semi-
circles shall have as their centre the middle stump at either end of 
the pitch. The radius of each of the semi-circles shall be 30 yards 
(27.43 metres). The semi-circles shall be linked by two parallel 
straight	lines	drawn	on	the	field	(see	paragraph	2	of	Appendix	C). 	
These	fielding	restriction	areas	should	be	marked	by	continuous 	
painted	white	lines	or	‘dots’	at	5	yard	(4.57	metres)	intervals,	each 	
‘dot’	to	be	covered	by	a	white	plastic	or	rubber	(but	not	metal) 	
disc measuring 7 inches (18 cm) in diameter. 
	 28.7.4	 During	the	Powerplay	overs	only	two	fielders	shall	be	permitted	
outside	this	fielding	restriction	area	at	the	instant	of	delivery.	
	 28.7.5	 During	the	non	Powerplay	overs,	no	more	than	5	fielders	shall	
be	permitted	outside	the	fielding	restriction	area	referred	to	in	
clause 28.7.3 above.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.56 5.57 30.2.3 If there is no batsman in either ground, then each ground 
belongs to whichever batsman is nearer to it, or, if the batsmen 
are level, to whichever batsman was nearer to it immediately 
prior to their drawing level.
 30.2.4 If a ground belongs to one batsman then the other ground 
belongs to the other batsman, irrespective of his position.
 30.3 Position of non-striker
  The non-striker, when standing at the bowler’s end, should be 
positioned on the opposite side of the wicket to that from which the 
ball is being delivered, unless a request to do otherwise is granted by 
the umpire.
 31 APPEALS
 31.1 Umpire not to give batsman out without an appeal
  Neither umpire shall give a batsman out, even though he may be out 
under	these	Playing	Conditions,	unless	appealed	to	by	a	fielder.	This	
shall not debar a batsman who is out under these Playing Conditions 
from leaving the wicket without an appeal having been made. Note, 
however, the provisions of clause 31.7.
 31.2 Batsman dismissed
  A batsman is dismissed if he is
  either given out by an umpire, on appeal
  or out under these Playing Conditions and leaves the wicket as in clause 31.1.
 31.3 Timing of appeals
  For an appeal to be valid, it must be made before the bowler begins his 
run-up or, if there is no run-up, his bowling action to deliver the next 
ball, and before Time has been called.
  The call of Over does not invalidate an appeal made prior to the start of 
the following over, provided Time has not been called. See clauses 12.2 
(Call of Time) and 17.2 (Start of an over).
 31.4 Appeal “How’s That?”
  An appeal “How’s That?” covers all ways of being out.
 31.5 Answering appeals
  The striker’s end umpire shall answer all appeals arising out of any of clauses 
35 (Hit wicket), 39 (Stumped) or 38 (Run out) when this occurs at the 
wicket-keeper’s end. The bowler’s end umpire shall answer all other appeals.
  When an appeal is made, each umpire shall answer on any matter that 
falls within his jurisdiction.
  When a batsman has been given Not out, either umpire may answer an 
appeal, made in accordance with clause 31.3, if it is on a further matter 
and is within his jurisdiction. 29.2 One bail off
	 	 If	one	bail	is	off,	it	shall	be	sufficient	for	the	purpose	of	putting	the	
wicket down to remove the remaining bail or to strike or pull any of the 
three stumps out of the ground, in any of the ways stated in clause 29.1.
 29.3 Remaking wicket
  If a wicket is broken or put down while the ball is in play, it shall not be 
remade by an umpire until the ball is dead. See clause 20 (Dead ball). 
Any	fielder	may,	however,	while	the	ball	is	in	play,
	 –		replace	a	bail	or	bails	on	top	of	the	stumps.
	 –		put	back	one	or	more	stumps	into	the	ground	where	the	wicket	
originally stood.
 29.4 Dispensing with bails
  If the umpires have agreed to dispense with bails in accordance with 
clause 8.5 (Dispensing with bails), it is for the umpire concerned to 
decide whether or not the wicket has been put down.
 29.4.1 After a decision to play without bails, the wicket has been put 
down	if	the	umpire	concerned	is	satisfied	that	the	wicket	has 	
been struck by the ball, by the striker’s bat, person or items of his 
clothing or equipment as described in clauses 29.1.1.2, 29.1.1.3 or 
29.1.1.4,	or	by	a	fielder	in	the	manner	described	in	clause	29.1.1.5.
 29.4.2 If the wicket has already been broken or put down, clause 
29.4.1 shall apply to any stump or stumps still in the ground. 
Any	fielder	may	replace	a	stump	or	stumps,	in	accordance	with	
clause 29.3, in order to have an opportunity of putting the 
wicket down.
 30 BATSMAN OUT OF HIS GROUND
 30.1 When out of his ground
 30.1.1 A batsman shall be considered to be out of his ground unless 
some part of his person or bat is grounded behind the popping 
crease at that end.
 30.1.2 However, a batsman shall not be considered to be out of his 
ground if, in running or diving towards his ground and beyond, 
and having grounded some part of his person or bat beyond the 
popping crease, there is subsequent loss of contact between 
the ground and any part of his person or bat, or between the 
bat and person.
 30.2 Which is a batsman’s ground
 30.2.1 If only one batsman is within a ground, it is his ground and will 
remain so even if he is later joined there by the other batsman.
 30.2.2 If both batsmen are in the same ground and one of them 
subsequently leaves it, the ground belongs to the batsman who 
remains in it.
 ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.58 5.59 33.2 A fair catch
 33.2.1 A catch will be fair only if, in every case
  either the ball, at any time
	 	 or	any	fielder	in	contact	with	the	ball,
  is not grounded beyond the boundary before the catch is 
completed. Note clauses 19.4 (Ball grounded beyond the 
boundary) and 19.5 (Fielder grounded beyond the boundary).
 33.2.2 Furthermore, a catch will be fair if any of the following 
conditions applies:
	 33.2.2.1	 the	ball	is	held	in	the	hand	or	hands	of	a	fielder,	even	
if the hand holding the ball is touching the ground, 
or is hugged to the body, or lodges in the external 
protective	equipment	worn	by	a	fielder,	or	lodges	
accidentally	in	a	fielder’s	clothing.
	 33.2.2.2	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	been	lawfully	
struck more than once by the striker, but only if it has 
not	been	grounded	since	it	was	first	struck.	See	clause	
34 (Hit the ball twice).
	 33.2.2.3	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	touched	the	wicket, 	
an	umpire,	another	fielder	or	the	other	batsman.
	 33.2.2.4	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	crossed	the	
boundary in the air, provided that the conditions in 
clause 33.2.1 are met.
 33.2.2.5 the ball is caught off an obstruction within the boundary 
that is not designated a boundary by the umpires.
 33.3 Making a catch
	 	 The	act	of	making	a	catch	shall	start	from	the	time	when	the	ball	first	
comes	into	contact	with	a	fielder’s	person	and	shall	end	when	a	fielder	
obtains complete control over both the ball and his own movement.
 33.4 No runs to be scored
  If the striker is dismissed Caught, runs from that delivery completed by 
the batsmen before the completion of the catch shall not be scored but 
any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall stand. Clause 18.11.1 
(Batsman returning to wicket he has left) shall apply from the instant of 
the completion of the catch.
 33.5 Caught to take precedence
  If the criteria of clause 33.1 are met and the striker is not out Bowled, 
then he is out Caught, even though a decision against either batsman 
for	another	method	of	dismissal	would	be	justified. 31.6 Consultation by umpires
  Each umpire shall answer appeals on matters within his own jurisdiction. 
If an umpire is doubtful about any point that the other umpire may have 
been in a better position to see, he/she shall consult the latter on this 
point of fact and shall then give the decision. If, after consultation, there 
is still doubt remaining, the decision shall be Not out.
 31.7 Batsman leaving the wicket under a misapprehension
	 	 An	umpire	shall	intervene	if	satisfied	that	a	batsman,	not	having	been	
given out, has left the wicket under a misapprehension of being out. The 
umpire intervening shall call and signal Dead ball to prevent any further 
action	by	the	fielding	side	and	shall	recall	the	batsman.
  A batsman may be recalled at any time up to the instant when the ball 
comes	into	play	for	the	next	delivery,	unless	it	is	the	final	wicket	of	the	
innings, in which case it should be up to the instant when the umpires 
leave	the	field.
 31.8 Withdrawal of an appeal
	 	 The	captain	of	the	fielding	side	may	withdraw	an	appeal	only	after	
obtaining the consent of the umpire within whose jurisdiction the 
appeal falls. If such consent is given, the umpire concerned shall, if 
applicable, revoke the decision and recall the batsman.
  The withdrawal of an appeal must be before the instant when the 
ball comes into play for the next delivery or, if the innings has been 
completed,	the	instant	when	the	umpires	leave	the	field.
 32 BOWLED
 32.1 Out Bowled
 32.1.1 The striker is out Bowled if his wicket is put down by a ball 
delivered	by	the	bowler,	not	being	a	No	ball,	even	if	it	first	
touches the striker’s bat or person.
 32.1.2 However, the striker shall not be out Bowled if before striking 
the wicket the ball has been in contact with any other player 
or an umpire. The striker will, however, be subject to clauses 37 
(Obstructing	the	field),	38	(Run	out)	and	39	(Stumped).
 32.2 Bowled to take precedence
  The striker is out Bowled if his wicket is put down as in clause 32.1, even 
though a decision against him for any other method of dismissal would 
be	justified.
 33 CAUGHT
 33.1 Out Caught
  The striker is out Caught if a ball delivered by the bowler, not being a No 
ball, touches his bat without having previously been in contact with any 
fielder,	and	is	subsequently	held	by	a	fielder	as	a	fair	catch,	as	described	
in clause 33.2 and 33.3, before it touches the ground.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.60 5.61 35 HIT WICKET
 35.1 Out Hit wicket
 35.1.1 The striker is out Hit wicket if, after the bowler has entered the 
delivery stride and while the ball is in play, his wicket is put down 
by either the striker’s bat or person as described in clauses 29.1.1.2 to 
29.1.1.4 (Wicket put down) in any of the following circumstances:
 35.1.1.1 in the course of any action taken by him in preparing 
to receive or in receiving a delivery,
	 35.1.1.2	 in	setting	off	for	the	first	run	immediately	after	
playing or playing at the ball,
 35.1.1.3 if no attempt is made to play the ball, in setting off 
for	the	first	run,	providing	that	in	the	opinion	of	the	
umpire this is immediately after the striker has had 
the opportunity of playing the ball,
 35.1.1.4 in lawfully making a second or further stroke for the 
purpose of guarding his wicket within the provisions 
of clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).
 35.1.2 If the striker puts his wicket down in any of the ways described 
in clauses 29.1.1.2 to 29.1.1.4 before the bowler has entered the 
delivery stride, either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball.
 35.2 Not out Hit wicket
  The striker is not out under this clause should his wicket be put down in 
any of the ways referred to in clause 35.1 if any of the following applies:
	 –		it	occurs	after	the	striker	has	completed	any	action	in	receiving	the	
delivery, other than in clauses 35.1.1.2 to 35.1.1.4.
	 –		it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	in	the	act	of	running,	other	than	setting	
off	immediately	for	the	first	run.
	 –		it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	trying	to	avoid	being	run	out	or	stumped.
	 –		it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	trying	to	avoid	a	throw	in	at	any	time.
	 –		the	bowler	after	entering	the	delivery	stride	does	not	deliver	the	ball.	
In this case either umpire shall immediately call and signal Dead ball. 
See clause 20.4 (Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball).
	 –		the	delivery	is	a	No	ball.
 36 LEG BEFORE WICKET
 36.1 Out LBW
  The striker is out LBW if all the circumstances set out in clauses 36.1.1 to 
36.1.5 apply.
 36.1.1 The bowler delivers a ball, not being a No ball
 36.1.2 the ball, if it is not intercepted full-pitch, pitches in line between 
wicket and wicket or on the off side of the striker’s wicket
 36.1.3 the ball not having previously touched his bat, the striker 
intercepts the ball, either full-pitch or after pitching, with any 
part of his person 34 HIT THE BALL TWICE
 34.1 Out Hit the ball twice
 34.1.1 The striker is out Hit the ball twice if, while the ball is in play, it 
strikes any part of his person or is struck by his bat and, before 
the	ball	has	been	touched	by	a	fielder,	the	striker	wilfully	strikes	
it again with his bat or person, other than a hand not holding 
the bat, except for the sole purpose of guarding his wicket. See 
clause	34.3	and	clause	37	(Obstructing	the	field).
	 34.1.2	 For	the	purpose	of	this	clause	‘struck’	or	‘strike’	shall	include	
contact with the person of the striker.
 34.2 Not out Hit the ball twice
  The striker will not be out under this clause if he
 34.2.1 strikes the ball a second or subsequent time in order to return 
the	ball	to	any	fielder.	
  Note, however, the provisions of clause 37.4 (Returning the ball 
to	a	fielder).
	 34.2.2	 wilfully	strikes	the	ball	after	it	has	touched	a	fielder.	Note,	
however	the	provisions	of	clause	37.1	(Out	Obstructing	the	field).
 34.3 Ball lawfully struck more than once
  The striker may, solely in order to guard his wicket and before the 
ball	has	been	touched	by	a	fielder,	lawfully	strike	the	ball	a	second	or	
subsequent time with the bat, or with any part of his person other than 
a hand not holding the bat. The striker may guard his wicket even if the 
delivery is a No ball.
  However, the striker may not prevent the ball from being caught by 
striking the ball more than once in defence of his wicket. See clause 37.3 
(Obstructing a ball from being caught).
 34.4 Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once
  When the ball is lawfully struck more than once, as permitted in clause 
34.3, if the ball does not become dead for any reason, the umpire shall 
call and signal Dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at 
the	completion	of	the	first	run.	However,	the	umpire	shall	delay	the	call	
of Dead ball to allow the opportunity for a catch to be completed.
  The umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side
	 –		return	any	not	out	batsman	to	his	original	end
	 –		signal	No	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable;	and
	 –		award	any	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	Penalty	runs	
under	clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 34.5 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.62 5.63	 37.2	 Not	out	Obstructing	the	field
	 	 A	batsman	shall	not	be	out	Obstructing	the	field	if
  obstruction or distraction is accidental, or
  obstruction is in order to avoid injury, or
  in the case of the striker, he makes a second or subsequent strike to 
guard his wicket lawfully as in clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than 
once). However, see clause 37.3.
 37.3 Obstructing a ball from being caught
 37.3.1  If the delivery is not a No ball, the striker is out Obstructing 
the	field	if	wilful	obstruction	or	distraction	by	either	batsman	
prevents the striker being out caught. 
 37.3.2  Clause 37.3.1 shall apply even if an obstruction is caused by the 
striker in lawfully guarding his wicket under the provision of 
Clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).
 37.3.3  If an obstruction or distraction takes place from a No ball then 
the batsman who caused the obstruction or distraction will be 
out	Obstructing	the	field.
 37.3.4  Clause 37.3.3 shall not apply if the striker obstructs while 
instinctively defending his wicket with a lawful second strike.
	 37.4	 Returning	the	ball	to	a	fielder
	 	 Either	batsman	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	at	any	time	while	the	ball	
is	in	play	and,	without	the	consent	of	a	fielder,	he	uses	the	bat	or	any	
part	of	his	person	to	return	the	ball	to	any	fielder.
 37.5 Runs scored
	 	 When	either	batsman	is	dismissed	Obstructing	the	field,
 37.5.1 unless the obstruction prevents a catch from being made, any 
runs completed by the batsmen before the offence shall be 
scored, together with any runs awarded for penalties to either 
side. See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded for penalties) and 18.8 
(Runs scored when a batsman is dismissed).
 37.5.2 if the obstruction prevents a catch from being made, any runs 
completed by the batsmen shall not be scored but any penalties 
awarded to either side shall stand.
 37.6 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
 38 RUN OUT
 38.1 Out Run out
  Either batsman is out Run out, except as in clause 38.2, if, at any time 
while the ball is in play,
  he is out of his ground
	 	 and	his	wicket	is	fairly	put	down	by	the	action	of	a	fielder
  even though No ball has been called, except in the circumstances of 
clause 38.2.2.2, and whether or not a run is being attempted. 36.1.4 the point of impact, even if above the level of the bails,
  either is between wicket and wicket
  or if the striker has made no genuine attempt to play the ball 
with the bat, is
  between wicket and wicket or outside the line of the off stump.
 36.1.5 but for the interception, the ball would have hit the wicket.
 36.2 Interception of the ball
 36.2.1 In assessing points of impact in clauses 36.1.3, 36.1.4 and 36.1.5, 
only	the	first	interception	is	to	be	considered.
	 36.2.2	 In	assessing	36.1.3,	if	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	is	not	satisfied	that	
the ball intercepted the batsman’s person before it touched the 
bat, the batsman shall be given Not out.
 36.2.3 In assessing clause 36.1.5, it is to be assumed that the path 
of the ball before interception would have continued after 
interception, irrespective of whether the ball might have 
pitched subsequently or not.
 36.3 Off side of wicket
  The off side of the striker’s wicket shall be determined by the striker’s 
stance at the moment the ball comes into play for that delivery. See 
paragraph 13 of Appendix A.
 37 OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD
	 37.1	 Out	Obstructing	the	field
	 37.1.1	 Either	batsman	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	except	in	the	
circumstances of clause 37.2, and while the ball is in play, he 
wilfully	attempts	to	obstruct	or	distract	the	fielding	side	by	
word or action. See also clause 34 (Hit the ball twice).
	 37.1.2	 The	striker	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	except	in	the	
circumstances of clause 37.2, in the act of receiving a ball 
delivered by the bowler, he wilfully strikes the ball with a hand 
not	holding	the	bat.	This	will	apply	whether	it	is	the	first	strike	or	
a second or subsequent strike. The act of receiving the ball shall 
extend both to playing at the ball and to striking the ball more 
than once in defence of his wicket.
 37.1.3 This clause will apply whether or not No ball is called.
 37.1.4 For the avoidance of doubt, if an umpire feels that a batsman, 
in	running	between	the	wickets,	has	significantly	changed	
his direction without probable cause and thereby obstructed 
a	fielder’s	attempt	to	effect	a	run	out,	the	batsman	should,	
on	appeal,	be	given	out,	obstructing	the	field.	It	shall	not	be	
relevant whether a run out would have occurred or not.
  If the change of direction involves the batsman crossing the 
pitch, clause 41.14 shall also apply.
  See also paragraph 2.2 of Appendix D.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.64 5.65 39.2 Ball rebounding from wicket-keeper’s person
  If the wicket is put down by the ball, it shall be regarded as having been 
put down by the wicket-keeper if the ball rebounds on to the stumps 
from any part of the wicket-keeper’s person or equipment or has been 
kicked or thrown on to the stumps by the wicket-keeper.
 39.3 Not out Stumped
 39.3.1 The striker will not be out Stumped if, after having received the 
delivery, he has left his ground in order to avoid injury.
 39.3.2 If the striker is not out Stumped he may, except in the 
circumstances of clause 38.2.2.2, (Batsman not out Run out), be 
out Run out if the conditions of clause 38.1 (Out Run out) apply.
 40 TIMED OUT
 40.1 Out Timed out
 40.1.1 After the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batsman, the 
incoming batsman must, unless Time has been called, be in 
position to take guard or for the other batsman to be ready to 
receive the next ball within 1 minute 30 seconds of the dismissal 
or retirement. If this requirement is not met, the incoming 
batsman will be out, Timed out.
 40.1.2 The incoming batsman is expected to be ready to make his way to 
the wicket immediately a wicket falls. Dugouts shall be provided.
 40.1.3 In the event of an extended delay in which no batsman comes 
to the wicket, the umpires shall adopt the procedure of clause 
16.2 (ICC Match Referee awarding a match). For the purposes of 
that clause the start of the action shall be taken as the expiry of 
the 1 minute 30 seconds referred to above.
 40.2 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
 41 UNFAIR PLAY
 41.1 Fair and unfair play – responsibility of captains
  The captains are responsible for ensuring that play is conducted within 
the Spirit of Cricket, as well as within these Playing Conditions.
 41.2 Fair and unfair play – responsibility of umpires
 41.2.1  The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play. If 
either umpire considers that any action by a player, not covered 
by these Playing Conditions, is unfair, he/she shall call and signal 
Dead ball, if appropriate, as soon as it becomes clear that the 
call will not disadvantage the non-offending side, and report the 
matter to the other umpire.  38.2 Batsman not out Run out
 38.2.1 A batsman is not out Run out in the circumstances of clauses 
38.2.1.1 or 38.2.1.2.
 38.2.1.1 He has been within his ground and has subsequently 
left it to avoid injury, when the wicket is put down.
  Note also the provisions of clause 30.1.2 (When out of 
his ground).
 38.2.1.2 The ball, delivered by the bowler, has not made 
contact	with	a	fielder,	before	the	wicket	is	put	down.
 38.2.2 The striker is not out Run out in any of the circumstances in 
clauses 38.2.2.1 and 38.2.2.2.
 38.2.2.1 He is out Stumped. See clause 39.1.2 (Out Stumped).
 38.2.2.2 No ball has been called
  and he is out of his ground not attempting a run
  and the wicket is fairly put down by the wicket-
keeper	without	the	intervention	of	another	fielder.
 38.3 Which batsman is out
  The batsman out in the circumstances of clause 38.1 is the one whose 
ground is at the end where the wicket is put down. See clause 30.2 
(Which is a batsman’s ground).
 38.4 Runs scored
  If either batsman is dismissed Run out, the run in progress when the 
wicket is put down shall not be scored, but any runs completed by the 
batsmen shall stand, together with any runs for penalties awarded to 
either side. See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded for penalties) and 18.8 (Runs 
scored when a batsman is dismissed).
 38.5 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.
 39 STUMPED
 39.1 Out Stumped
 39.1.1 The striker is out Stumped, except as in clause 39.3, if
  a ball which is delivered is not called No ball
  and he is out of his ground, other than as in clause 39.3.1
  and he has not attempted a run
  when his wicket is fairly put down by the wicket-keeper 
without	the	intervention	of	another	fielder.	Note,	however	
clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper).
 39.1.2 The striker is out Stumped if all the conditions of clause 39.1.1 are 
satisfied,	even	though	a	decision	of	Run	out	would	be	justified.
 ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.66 5.67 41.3.5 If it is possible to identify the player(s) responsible for changing 
the condition of the ball, the umpires shall;
 41.3.5.1 Change the ball forthwith. 
 41.3.5.1.1 If the umpires together agree that the 
condition of the ball has been unfairly 
changed by a member or members of the 
fielding	side,	the	batsman	at	the	wicket	
shall choose the replacement ball from 
a selection of six other balls of various 
degrees of usage (including a new ball) and 
of the same brand as the ball in use prior to 
the contravention.
 41.3.5.1.2 If the umpires together agree that the 
condition of the ball has been unfairly 
changed by a member or members of the 
batting side, the umpires shall select and 
bring into use immediately, a ball which shall 
have wear comparable to that of the previous 
ball immediately prior to the contravention.
 41.3.5.2 Additionally, the bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	opposing	side.
	 –		if	appropriate,	inform	the	batsmen	at	the	wicket	
and	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	that	the	ball	has	
been changed and the reason for their action.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	batting	side	as	soon	as	
practicable of what has occurred.
  The umpires shall then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the player(s) concerned.
 41.3.6 If it is not possible to identify the player(s) responsible for 
changing the condition of the ball, the umpires shall;
 41.3.6.1 Change the ball forthwith. The umpires shall choose 
the replacement ball for one of similar wear and 
of the same brand as the ball in use prior to the 
contravention.
 41.3.6.2 The bowler’s end umpire shall issue the captain with a 
first	and	final	warning,	and
 41.3.6.3 Advise the captain that should there be any further 
instances of changing the condition of the ball by that 
team during the remainder of the series, clause 41.3.5.2 
above will be adopted, with the captain deemed to 
be the player responsible for the contravention.	 41.2.1.1		 If	this	is	a	first	offence	by	that	side,	the	bowler’s	end	
umpire shall then
 -  summon the offending player’s captain and issue 
a	first	and	final	warning	which	shall	apply	to	all	
members of the team for the remainder of the match.
 -  warn the offending player’s captain that any further 
such offence by any member of his team shall result in 
the award of 5 Penalty runs to the opposing team.
 41.2.1.2  If this is a second or subsequent offence by that side the 
bowler’s end umpire shall then
 -  summon the offending player’s captain and inform 
him that there has been a further such offence.
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing side.
 41.2.1.3  The umpires shall may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the player concerned.
  41.3 The match ball – changing its condition
 41.3.1 The umpires shall make frequent and irregular inspections of the 
ball. In addition, they shall immediately inspect the ball if they 
suspect anyone of attempting to change the condition of the 
ball, except as permitted in clause 41.3.2.
 41.3.2 It is an offence for any player to take any action which changes 
the condition of the ball.
  Except in carrying out his normal duties, a batsman is not allowed 
to damage the ball other than, when the ball is in play, in striking 
it with the bat. See also clause 5.5 (Damage to the ball).
	 	 A	fielder	may,	however:
 41.3.2.1 polish the ball on his clothing provided that no 
artificial	substance	is	used	and	that	such	polishing	
wastes no time.
 41.3.2.2 remove mud from the ball under the supervision of  
an umpire.
 41.3.2.3 dry a wet ball on a piece of cloth that has been 
approved by the umpires.
 41.3.3 The umpires shall consider the condition of the ball to have 
been unfairly changed if any action by any player does not 
comply with the conditions in clause 41.3.2.
 41.3.4 If the umpires together agree that the condition of the ball has 
been unfairly changed by a member or members of either side, 
or that its condition is inconsistent with the use it has received, 
they shall consider that there has been a contravention of 
this clause and decide together whether they can identify the 
player(s) responsible for such conduct. 
 ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.68 5.69 41.5.8 Any runs completed by the batsmen before the offence shall  
be scored, together with any runs for penalties awarded to 
either side. Additionally, the run in progress shall be scored 
whether or not the batsmen had already crossed at the instant 
of the offence.
 41.5.9 The batsmen at the wicket shall decide which of them is to face 
the next delivery.
 41.5.10 The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.6 Bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries
 41.6.1 Notwithstanding clause 41.6.2, the bowling of short pitched 
deliveries is dangerous if the bowler’s end umpire considers 
that, taking into consideration the skill of the striker, by their 
speed,	length,	height	and	direction	they	are	likely	to	inflict	
physical injury on him. The fact that the striker is wearing 
protective equipment shall be disregarded.
	 	 In	the	first	instance	the	umpire	decides	that	the	bowling	of	
short pitched deliveries has become dangerous under 41.6.1
 41.6.1.1 The umpire shall call and signal No ball, and when 
the ball is dead, caution the bowler and inform the 
other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	
the batsmen of what has occurred. This caution shall 
apply to that bowler throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.2 If there is a second instance, the umpire shall repeat 
the above procedure and indicate to the bowler that 
this	is	a	final	warning,	which	shall	apply	to	that	bowler	
throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.3 Should there be any further instance by the same 
bowler in that innings, the umpire shall
 –  call and signal No ball
 –  when the ball is dead, direct the captain of the 
fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	immediately	
from bowling
 –  inform the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to 
bowl again in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another 
bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part of the 
previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the 
next over.
 –  The umpire shall report the occurrence to the 
batsmen and, as soon as practicable, to the captain 
of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the bowler concerned. 41.4 Deliberate attempt to distract striker
	 41.4.1	 It	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	deliberately	to	attempt	to	distract	the	
striker while he is preparing to receive or receiving a delivery.
	 41.4.2	 If	either	umpire	considers	that	any	action	by	a	fielder	is	such	an	
attempt, he/she shall immediately call and signal Dead ball and 
inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. The bowler’s 
end umpire shall
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side,	the	batsmen	and,	as	
soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of the 
reason for the action.
  Neither batsman shall be dismissed from that delivery and the 
ball shall not count as one of the over.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.5 Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batsman
	 41.5.1	 In	addition	to	clause	41.4,	it	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	wilfully	to	
attempt, by word or action, to distract, deceive or obstruct 
either batsman after the striker has received the ball.
 41.5.2 It is for either one of the umpires to decide whether any 
distraction, deception or obstruction is wilful or not.
	 41.5.3	 If	either	umpire	considers	that	a	fielder	has	caused	or	attempted	
to cause such a distraction, deception or obstruction, he/she 
shall immediately call and signal Dead ball and inform the other 
umpire of the reason for the call.
 41.5.4 Neither batsman shall be dismissed from that delivery.
 41.5.5 If an obstruction involves physical contact, the umpires 
together shall decide whether or not an offence under clause  
42 (Players’ conduct) has been committed.
 41.5.5.1 If an offence under clause 42 (Players’ conduct) 
has been committed, they shall apply the relevant 
procedures in clause 42 and shall also apply each of 
clauses 41.5.7 to 41.5.9.
 41.5.5.2 If they consider that there has been no offence under 
clause 42 (Players’ conduct), they shall apply each of 
clauses 41.5.6 to 41.5.10.
 41.5.6 The bowler’s end umpire shall;
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –	inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	reason	for	this	
action and as soon as practicable inform the captain of the 
batting side.
 41.5.7 The ball shall not count as one of the over.
 ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.70 5.71  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another 
bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part of the 
previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the 
next over.
	 –		The	umpire	shall	report	the	occurrence	to	the	
batsmen and, as soon as practicable, to the captain 
of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the bowler concerned.
 41.6.2 Should the umpires initiate the caution and warning procedures 
set out in clauses 41.6.1.3, 41.6.1.9 and 41.7, such cautions and 
warnings are not to be cumulative.
 41.7 Bowling of dangerous and unfair non-pitching deliveries
 41.7.1 Any delivery, which passes or would have passed, without 
pitching, above waist height of the striker standing upright at 
the popping crease, is to be deemed to be unfair, whether or 
not	it	is	likely	to	inflict	physical	injury	on	the	striker.	If	the	bowler	
bowls such a delivery the umpire shall immediately call and 
signal No ball.
  If, in the opinion of the umpire, such a delivery is considered 
likely	to	inflict	physical	injury	on	the	batsman	by	its	speed	and	
direction, it shall be considered dangerous. When the ball is 
dead the umpire shall caution the bowler, indicating that this is 
a	first	and	final	warning.	The	umpire	shall	also	inform	the	other	
umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	batsmen	 of	what	
has occurred. This caution shall apply to that bowler throughout 
the innings.
 41.7.2 Should there be any further instance (where a dangerous 
non-pitching	delivery	is	bowled	and	is	considered	likely	to	inflict	
physical injury on the batsman) by the same bowler in that 
innings, the umpire shall
	 –		call	and	signal	No	ball
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	for	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again 
in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, 
who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over, 
nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.
  Additionally the umpire shall
	 –		report	the	occurrence	to	the	batsmen	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, to the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the bowler concerned. 41.6.1.4 A bowler shall be limited to one fast short-pitched 
delivery per over.
	 41.6.1.5	 A	fast	short-pitched	delivery	is	defined	as	a	ball,	 
which passes or would have passed above the 
shoulder height of the striker standing upright at the 
popping crease.
 41.6.1.6 The umpire at the bowler’s end shall advise the 
bowler and the batsman on strike when each fast 
short pitched delivery has been bowled.
 41.6.1.7 In addition, a ball that passes above head height of 
the batsman, standing upright at the popping crease, 
that prevents him from being able to hit it with his 
bat by means of a normal cricket stroke shall be called 
a Wide. See also clause 22.1.1.2
 41.6.1.7.1 For the avoidance of doubt any fast short 
pitched delivery that is called a Wide  
under this clause shall also count as one of 
the allowable short pitched deliveries in 
that over.
 41.6.1.8 In the event of a bowler bowling more than one fast 
short-pitched	delivery	in	an	over	as	defined	in	clause	
41.6.1.5 above, the umpire at the bowler’s end shall 
call and signal No ball on each occasion. A differential 
signal shall be used to signify a fast short pitched 
delivery.	The	umpire	shall	call	and	signal	‘No	ball’	and	
then tap the head with the other hand.
 41.6.1.9 If a bowler delivers a second fast short pitched ball 
in an over, the umpire, after the call of No ball and 
when the ball is dead, shall caution the bowler, inform 
the	other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	
the batsmen at the wicket of what has occurred. This 
caution shall apply throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.10 If there is a second instance of the bowler being No 
balled in the innings for bowling more than one fast 
short pitched delivery in an over, the umpire shall advise 
the	bowler	that	this	is	his	final	warning	for	the	innings.
 41.6.1.11 Should there be any further instance by the same 
bowler in that innings, the umpire shall
	 –		call	and	signal	No	ball
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	
fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	immediately	
from bowling
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	for	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to 
bowl again in that innings.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.72 5.73  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		warn	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side,	indicating	that	this	is	a	
first	and	final	warning.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen	of	what	has	occurred.
 41.9.3 If either umpire considers that there is any further waste of time 
in	that	innings	by	any	fielder,	the	umpire	concerned	shall
	 –	if	the	ball	is	in	play,	call	and	signal	Dead	ball.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	what	has	occurred.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then award 5 Penalty runs to the 
batting	side	and	inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	
reason for this action.
  Additionally the umpire shall inform the batsmen and, as soon as is 
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
  If the umpires believe that the act of time wasting was 
deliberate or repetitive, they may lodge a report under the ICC 
Code of Conduct. In such circumstances the Captain and/or any 
individual	members	of	the	fielding	team	responsible	for	the	time	
wasting will be charged.
 41.10 Batsman wasting time
 41.10.1 It is unfair for a batsman to waste time. In normal circumstances, 
the striker should always be ready to take strike when the 
bowler is ready to start his run-up.
 41.10.2 Should either batsman waste time by failing to meet this 
requirement, or in any other way, the following procedure shall 
be	adopted.	At	the	first	instance,	either	before	the	bowler	starts	
his run-up or when the ball becomes dead, as appropriate, the 
umpire shall
	 –		warn	both	batsmen	and	indicate	that	this	is	a	first	and	final	
warning. This warning shall apply throughout the innings. The 
umpire shall so inform each incoming batsman.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	what	has	occurred.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
 41.10.3 If there is any further time wasting by any batsman in that innings, 
the umpire shall, at the appropriate time while the ball is dead
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
	 –		inform	the	other	batsman,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of 
what has occurred.
  If the umpires believe that the act of time wasting was deemed 
to be deliberate or repetitive, they may lodge a report under 
the ICC Code of Conduct. In such circumstances the batsman 
concerned will be charged. 41.7.3 The warning sequence in clauses 41.7.1 and 41.7.2 is independent 
of the warning and action sequence in clause 41.6.
 41.7.4 If the umpire considers that a bowler deliberately bowled a high 
full-pitched delivery, deemed to be dangerous and unfair as 
defined	in	clause	41.7.1,	then	the	caution	and	warning	in	clause	
41.7.1 shall be dispensed with. The umpire shall
	 –		immediately	call	and	signal	No	ball.
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling and inform 
the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again 
in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, 
who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over, 
nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.
	 –		report	the	occurrence	to	the	batsmen	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, to the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the bowler concerned.
 41.8 Bowling of deliberate front-foot No ball
  If the umpire considers that the bowler has delivered a deliberate 
front-foot No ball, he/she shall
	 –		immediately	call	and	signal	No	ball.
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	for	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, who shall 
neither have bowled any part of the previous over, nor be allowed to 
bowl any part of the next over.
	 –		report	the	occurrence	to	the	batsmen	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	to	
the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against 
the bowler concerned.
	 41.9	 Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	side
	 41.9.1	 It	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	to	waste	time.
 41.9.2 If either umpire considers that the progress of an over is 
unnecessarily slow, or time is being wasted in any other way, 
by	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	or	by	any	other	fielder,	at	the	
first	instance	the	umpire	concerned	shall
	 –		if	the	ball	is	in	play,	call	and	signal	Dead	ball.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	what	has	occurred.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.74 5.75 41.13.3 If, in that innings, the same bowler again contravenes this 
clause, the umpire shall repeat the above procedure indicating 
that	this	is	a	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	also	apply	
throughout the innings.
 41.13.4 If, in that innings, the same bowler contravenes this clause a 
third time, when the ball is dead, the umpire shall,
	 –		direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	
immediately from bowling. If applicable, the over shall be 
completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled 
any part of the previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any 
part of the next over. The bowler taken off shall not be 
allowed to bowl again in that innings.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	the	captain	
of the batting side of what has occurred.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the bowler concerned.
 41.14 Batsman damaging the pitch
 41.14.1 It is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch. 
If the striker enters the protected area in playing or playing 
at the ball, he must move from it immediately thereafter. A 
batsman will be deemed to be causing avoidable damage 
if either umpire considers that his presence on the pitch is 
without reasonable cause.
 41.14.2 If either batsman causes deliberate or avoidable damage to 
the	pitch,	other	than	as	in	clause	41.15,	at	the	first	instance	the	
umpire seeing the contravention shall, when the ball is dead, 
inform the other umpire of the occurrence. The bowler’s end 
umpire shall then
	 –		warn	both	batsmen	that	the	practice	is	unfair	and	indicate	
that	this	is	a	first	and	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	apply	
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform each 
incoming batsman.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
 41.14.3 If there is any further instance of avoidable damage to the 
pitch by any batsman in that innings, the umpire seeing the 
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		return	any	not	out	batsman	to	his	original	end.
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	to	the	scorers	if	applicable.
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side. 41.11 The protected area
	 	 The	protected	area	is	defined	as	that	area	of	the	pitch	contained	within	
a rectangle bounded at each end by imaginary lines parallel to the 
popping creases and 5 ft/1.52 m in front of each, and on the sides by 
imaginary lines, one each side of the imaginary line joining the centres 
of the two middle stumps, each parallel to it and 1 ft/30.48 cm from it.
 41.12 Fielder damaging the pitch
 41.12.1 It is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the 
pitch.	A	fielder	will	be	deemed	to	be	causing	avoidable	damage	
if either umpire considers that his presence on the pitch is 
without reasonable cause.
	 41.12.2	 If	a	fielder	causes	avoidable	damage	to	the	pitch,	other	than	
as	in	clause	41.13.1,	at	the	first	instance	the	umpire	seeing	the	
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire. The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		caution	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	indicate	that	this	
is	a	first	and	final	warning.	 This	warning	shall	apply	throughout	
the innings.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen	of	what	has	occurred.
 41.12.3 If, in that innings, there is any further instance of avoidable 
damage	to	the	pitch,	by	any	fielder,	the	umpire	seeing	the	
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire. The bowler’s end umpire shall then:
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
  Additionally the umpire shall:
	 –		inform	the	fielding	captain	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	the	captain	
of the batting side of what has occurred.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate	against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.13 Bowler running on protected area
 41.13.1 It is unfair for a bowler to enter the protected area in his  
follow-through without reasonable cause, whether or not  
the ball is delivered.
	 41.13.2	 If	a	bowler	contravenes	this	clause,	at	the	first	instance	and	
when the ball is dead, the umpire shall
	 –		caution	the	bowler	and	inform	the	other	umpire	of	what	has	
occurred. This caution shall apply to that bowler throughout 
the innings.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	batsmen	of	
what has occurred.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.76 5.77 41.16 Non-striker leaving his ground early
  If the non-striker is out of his ground from the moment the ball comes 
into play to the instant when the bowler would normally have been 
expected to release the ball, the bowler is permitted to attempt to run 
him out. Whether the attempt is successful or not, the ball shall not 
count as one in the over.
  If the bowler fails in an attempt to run out the non-striker, the umpire 
shall call and signal Dead ball as soon as possible.
 41.17 Batsmen stealing a run
 41.17.1 It is unfair for the batsmen to attempt to steal a run during the 
bowler’s run-up.
	 	 Unless	the	bowler	attempts	to	run	out	either	batsman	–	see	
clauses 41.16 and 21.4 (Bowler throwing towards striker’s end 
before	delivery)	–	the	umpire	shall
	 –		call	and	signal	Dead	ball	as	soon	as	the	batsmen	cross	in	such	
an attempt.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		return	the	batsmen	to	their	original	ends.
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
	 –		inform	the	batsmen,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	
soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side, of the 
reason for this action.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the batsman concerned.
 41.18 Penalty runs
 41.18.1 When Penalty runs are awarded to either side, when the ball is 
dead the umpire shall signal the Penalty runs to the scorers. See 
clause 2.13 (Signals).
 41.18.2 Penalty runs shall be awarded in each case where these Playing 
Conditions require the award, even if a result has already been 
achieved. See clause 16.6 (Winning hit or extras).
  Note, however, that the restrictions on awarding Penalty runs, 
in clauses 23.3 (Leg byes not to be awarded), 34.4 (Runs scored 
from ball lawfully struck more than once) and 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side),	will	apply.
 41.18.3 When 5 Penalty runs are awarded to the batting side under 
any of clauses 24.4 (Player returning without permission), 28.2 
(Fielding the ball), or 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the 
fielding	side)	or	under	41.3,	41.4,	41.5,	41.9	or	41.12,	then
	 –		they	shall	be	scored	as	Penalty	extras	and	shall	be	in	addition	
to any other penalties.	 –		award	any	other	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side).
	 –		Inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the batsman concerned.
 41.15 Striker in protected area
 41.15.1 The striker shall not adopt a stance in the protected area or so 
close to it that frequent encroachment is inevitable.
  The striker may mark a guard on the pitch provided that no 
mark is unreasonably close to the protected area.
 41.15.2 If either umpire considers that the striker is in breach of any of 
the conditions in clause 41.15.1, if the bowler has not entered 
the delivery stride, he/she shall immediately call Dead ball, 
otherwise, wait until the ball is dead; he/she shall then inform 
the other umpire of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		warn	the	striker	that	the	practice	is	unfair	and	indicate	
that	this	is	a	first	and	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	apply	
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform the 
non-striker and each incoming batsman.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
 41.15.3 If there is any further breach of any of the conditions in clause 
41.15.1 by any batsman in that innings, the umpire seeing the 
contravention shall, if the bowler has not entered his delivery 
stride, immediately call and signal Dead ball, otherwise, he/she 
shall wait until the ball is dead and then inform the other umpire 
of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		return	any	not	out	batsman	to	his	original	end.
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	to	the	scorers	if	applicable.
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
	 –		award	any	other	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side).
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the batsman concerned.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.78 5.79 42.2.2 If such an offence is committed, 42.2.2.1 to 42.2.2.5 shall  
be implemented.
 42.2.2.1 The umpire shall call Time.
 42.2.2.2 Together the umpires shall summon and inform the 
offending player’s captain that an offence at this 
Level has occurred.
 42.2.2.3 The umpires shall instruct the captain to remove  
the	offending	player	immediately	from	the	field	of	
play for the remainder of the match and shall apply 
the following:
	 42.2.2.3.1	 If	the	offending	player	is	a	fielder,	no	
substitute shall be allowed for him. He 
is	to	be	recorded	as	Retired	–	out	at	the	
commencement of any subsequent innings 
in which his team is the batting side.
 42.2.2.3.2 If a bowler is suspended mid-over, then 
that over must be completed by a different 
bowler, who shall not have bowled the 
previous over nor shall be permitted to 
bowl the next over.
 42.2.2.3.3 If the offending player is a batsman he is to 
be	recorded	as	Retired	–	out	in	the	current	
innings, unless he has been dismissed 
under any of clauses 32 to 39, and at the 
commencement of any subsequent innings 
in which his team is the batting side. If no 
further batsman is available to bat, the 
innings is completed.
 42.2.2.4 As soon as practicable, the umpire shall:
	 –	award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	opposing	team
	 –		signal	the	Level	4	penalty	to	the	scorers
	 –		call	Play.
 42.2.2.5 The umpires shall then report the matter to the  
ICC Match Referee under the ICC Code of Conduct.
	 42.3	 Captain	refusing	to	remove	a	player	from	the	field
 42.3.1 If a captain refuses to carry out an instruction under 42.2.2.3,  
the umpires shall invoke clause 16.2 (ICC Match Referee 
awarding a match).
 42.3.2 If both captains refuse to carry out instructions under 42.2.2.3 
in respect of the same incident, the umpires shall instruct the 
players	to	leave	the	field.	The	match	is	not	concluded	as	in	
clause 16.2 and there shall be no result under clause 16.	 –		they	are	awarded	when	the	ball	is	dead	and	shall	not	
be regarded as runs scored from either the immediately 
preceding delivery or the immediately following delivery,  
and shall be in addition to any runs from those deliveries.
	 –		the	batsmen	shall	not	change	ends	solely	by	reason	of	the	 
5 run penalty.
	 41.18.4	 When	5	Penalty	runs	are	awarded	to	the	fielding	side,	under	
clause 18.5.2 (Deliberate short runs), or under 41.10, 41.14, 41.15 or 
41.17, they shall be added as Penalty extras to that side’s total of 
runs	in	its	most	recently	completed	innings.	If	the	fielding	side	
has not completed an innings, the 5 Penalty runs shall be added 
to the score in its next innings.
 42 PLAYERS’ CONDUCT
 42.1 Serious misconduct
 42.1.1 The umpires shall act upon any serious misconduct. The relevant 
offences and the corresponding actions by the umpires are 
identified	in	clause	42.2.1.	These	offences	correspond	with	
Level 4 offences in the ICC Code of Conduct. Level 1 to Level 
3 offences continue to be dealt with separately under the ICC 
Code of Conduct.
 42.1.2 If either umpire considers that a player has committed one 
of these offences at any time during the match, the umpire 
concerned shall call and signal Dead ball. This call may be 
delayed	until	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	it	will	not	disadvantage	
the non-offending side.
 42.1.3 The umpire concerned shall report the matter to the other umpire 
and together they shall decide whether an offence has been 
committed. The umpires may also consult with the third umpire 
and the match referee, who may review any audio or video 
replays	to	confirm	whether	an	offence	has	been	committed.	If	so, 	
the umpires shall then apply the related sanctions.
 42.1.4 If the offence is committed by a batsman, the umpires shall 
summon	the	offending	player’s	captain	to	the	field.	Solely	for	
the purpose of this clause, the batsmen at the wicket may not 
deputise for their captain.
 42.2 Level 4 offences and action by umpires
 42.2.1 Any of the following actions by a player shall constitute a Level 
4 offence:
	 –		threatening	to	assault	an	umpire
	 –		making	inappropriate	and	deliberate	physical	contact	with	 
an umpire
	 –		physically	assaulting	a	player	or	any	other	person
	 –		committing	any	other	act	of	violence.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.80 5.81APPENDICES TO  
ICC TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS
(INCORPORATING THE 2017 CODE OF THE MCC LAWS OF CRICKET)
A.	 Definitions
B. Equipment
 1. The bat
 2. The wickets
 3. Wicket-keeping gloves
C. The venue
 1. The pitch and the creases
 2. Advertising on grounds, perimeter boards and sight-screens
 3. Markings	on	outfield
D. Decision Review System (DRS) and Third Umpire Protocol
E. Calculations
F.  The Super Over 42.4 Additional points relating to Level 4 offences
 42.4.1 If a player, while acting as wicket-keeper, commits a Level 
4 offence, clause 24.1.2 shall not apply, meaning that only a 
nominated	player	may	keep	wicket,	even	if	another	fielder	
becomes injured or ill and is replaced by a substitute.
 42.4.2 A nominated player who has a substitute will also suffer the 
penalty for any Level 4 offence committed by the substitute. 
However, only the substitute will be reported under clause 42.2.2.5. 
 ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.82 5.83 2.3 A protective helmet is headwear made of hard material and designed 
to protect the head or the face or both, which shall (in line with the 
Clothing	and	Equipment	Regulations)	be	certified	to	BS7928:2013.	
For the purposes of interpreting these Playing Conditions, such a 
description will include faceguards.
 2.4 Equipment	–	a	batsman’s	equipment	is	his/her	bat	as	defined	above,	
together with any external protective equipment he is wearing.
  A	fielder’s	equipment is any external protective equipment that he  
is wearing.
 2.5 The bat –	the	following	are	to	be	considered	as	part	of	the	bat:
	 –	 the	whole	of	the	bat	itself.
	 –	 the	whole	of	a	glove	(or	gloves)	worn	on	the	hand	(or	hands)	holding	
the bat.
	 –	 the	hand	(or	hands)	holding	the	bat,	if	the	batsman	is	not	wearing	a	
glove on that hand or on those hands.
 2.6 Held in batsman’s hand. Contact between a batsman’s hand, or glove 
worn on his/her hand, and any part of the bat shall constitute the bat 
being held in that hand.
 3 THE PLAYING AREA
 3.1 The	field	of	play is the area contained within the boundary.
 3.2 The square	is	a	specially	prepared	area	of	the	field	of	play	within	which	
the match pitch is situated.
 3.3 The	outfield	is	that	part	of	the	field	of	play	between	the	square	and	  
the boundary.
 4 POSITIONING
 4.1 Behind the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area of the 
field	of	play,	including	any	other	marking,	objects	and	persons	therein,	
that is on that side of the popping crease that does not include the 
creases at the opposite end of the pitch. Behind, in relation to any other 
marking, object or person, follows the same principle. See the diagram 
in paragraph 13. 
 4.2 In front of the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area 
of	the	field	of	play,	including	any	other	marking,	objects	and	persons	
therein, that is on that side of the popping crease that includes the 
creases at the opposite end of the pitch. In front of, in relation to any 
other marking, object or person, follows the same principle. See the 
diagram in paragraph 13.
 4.3 The striker’s end is the place where the striker stands to receive a 
delivery	from	the	bowler	only	insofar	as	it	identifies,	independently	of	
where the striker may subsequently move, one end of the pitch. 
 4.4 The bowler’s end is the end from which the bowler delivers the ball. It is 
the	other	end	of	the	pitch	from	the	striker’s	end	and	identifies	that	end	
of the pitch that is not the striker’s end as described in paragraph 4.3. 
 4.5 The wicket-keeper’s end is the same as the striker’s end as described in 
paragraph 4.3.APPENDIX A
DEFINITIONS
 1 THE MATCH
 1.1 The game is used in these Playing Conditions as a general term meaning 
the Game of Cricket. 
 1.2 A match is a single Twenty20 International match between two teams, 
played under these Playing Conditions.
 1.3 T20I is an abbreviation for Twenty20 International.
 1.4 A Super Over is a procedure that may be adopted for determining the 
result of a tied match, as set out in Appendix F.
 1.5 The toss is the toss for choice of innings.
 1.6 Before the toss is at any time before the toss on the day of the match.
 1.7 Before the match is at any time before the toss, not restricted to the 
day of the match.
 1.8 During the match is at any time after the toss until the conclusion of 
the match, whether play is in progress or not.
 1.9 Playing time is any time between the call of Play and the call of Time. 
See clauses 12.1 (Call of Play) and 12.2 (Call of Time). 
 1.10 Conduct of the match includes any action relevant to the match at any time.
 1.11 Ground Authority is the entity responsible for the selection and 
preparation of the pitch and other functions relating to the hosting and 
management of the match, including any agents acting on their behalf 
(including but not limited to the curator or other ground staff).
 1.12 Home Board is the ICC member responsible for the home team and the 
hosting of the match.
 1.13 Visiting Board is the ICC member responsible for the visiting team.
 1.14 The Spirit of Cricket refers to the values of respect and fair play that 
underpin the game of cricket, as set out in the Preamble to these 
Playing Conditions.
 1.15 The ICC Code of Conduct is the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and 
Player Support Personnel, as amended from time to time.
 2 IMPLEMENTS AND EQUIPMENT
 2.1 Implements used in the match are the bat, the ball, the stumps and bails.
 2.2 External protective equipment is any visible item of apparel worn for 
protection against external blows.
  For a batsman, items permitted are a protective helmet, external leg 
guards (batting pads), batting gloves and, if visible, forearm guards.
	 	 For	a	fielder,	only	a	protective	helmet	is	permitted,	except	in	the	case	  
of a wicket-keeper, for whom wicket-keeping pads and gloves are  
also permitted.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.84 5.85 5.10 Soft Signal is the visual communication by the bowler’s end umpire to 
the third umpire (accompanied by additional information via two-way 
radio	where	necessary)	of	his/her	initial	on-field	decision	prior	to	
initiating an Umpire Review.
 5.11 Umpire’s Call	is	the	concept	within	the	DRS	under	which	the	on-field	
decision of the bowler’s end umpire shall stand, which shall apply 
under	the	specific	circumstances	set	out	in	paragraphs	3.4.5	and	3.4.6	of	
Appendix D, where the ball-tracking technology indicates a marginal 
decision in respect of either the Impact Zone or the Wicket Zone.
 5.12 The Pitching Zone as used in the DRS is a two dimensional area on the 
pitch between both sets of stumps with its boundaries consisting of the 
base of both sets of stumps and a line between the outside of the outer 
stumps at each end.
 5.13 The Impact Zone as used in the DRS is a three dimensional space 
extending	 between	 both	sets	of	stumps	to	an	indefinite	 height	vertically	
and with its boundaries consisting of the base of the stumps and the 
outside of the outer stumps at each end.
 5.14 The Wicket Zone as used in the DRS is a two dimensional area with its 
boundaries consisting of the outside of the outer stumps, the base of 
the stumps, and the lower edge of the bails.
 5.15 A Fair Catch	is	a	catch	that	has	been	taken	cleanly	by	the	fielder	in	
accordance with clause 33.
 5.16 A Bump Ball is where the ball has made contact with the ground shortly 
after making contact with the striker’s bat.
 5.17 The Elite Panel	is	the	group	of	umpires	contracted	to	the	ICC	to	officiate	
in international cricket. 
 5.18 The International Panel is the group of umpires nominated by the ICC’s 
full members in accordance with clause 2.1.3 of the Playing Conditions.
 6 BATSMEN
 6.1 Batting side is the side currently batting, whether or not play is in progress.
 6.2 Member of the batting side is one of the players nominated by the 
captain of the batting side, or any authorised replacement for such 
nominated player.
 6.3 A batsman’s ground	–	at	each	end	of	the	pitch,	the	whole	area	of	the	
field	of	play	behind	the	popping	crease	is	the	ground	at	that	end	for	  
a batsman.
 6.4 Original end is the end where a batsman was when the ball came into 
play for that delivery.
 6.5 Wicket he has left is the wicket at the end where a batsman was at the 
start of the run in progress.
 6.6 Guard position is the position and posture adopted by the striker to 
receive a ball delivered by the bowler.
 6.7 	 For	the	purposes	of	these	Playing	Conditions,	waist	height	is	defined	
as the point at which the top of the batsman’s trousers would 
conventionally be when he is standing upright at the popping crease. 4.6 In front of the line of the striker’s wicket is	in	the	area	of	the	field	of	
play in front of the imaginary line joining the fronts of the stumps at the 
striker’s end; this line to be considered extended in both directions to 
the boundary. See paragraph 4.2.
 4.7 Behind the wicket	is	in	the	area	of	the	field	of	play	behind	the	
imaginary line joining the backs of the stumps at the appropriate end; 
this line to be considered extended in both directions to the boundary. 
See paragraph 4.1.
 4.8 Behind the wicket-keeper is behind the wicket at the striker’s end, as 
defined	above,	but	in	line	with	both	sets	of	stumps	and	further	from	the	
stumps than the wicket-keeper.
 4.9 Off side/on (leg) side –	see	diagram	in	paragraph	13.
 4.10 Inside edge is the edge on the same side as the nearer wicket. 
 5 UMPIRES AND DECISION-MAKING
 5.1 Umpire	–	where	the	description	the umpire is used on its own, it 
always	means	‘the	bowler’s	end	umpire’	though	this	full	description	is	
sometimes used for emphasis or clarity. Similarly the umpires always 
means both umpires and the third umpire. An umpire and umpires are 
generalised terms. Otherwise, a fuller description indicates which one 
of	the	umpires	is	specifically	intended.	Each	umpire	will	be	bowler’s	end	
umpire and striker’s end umpire in alternate overs. 
 5.2 Bowler’s end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the bowler’s end 
(see paragraph 4.4) for the current delivery.
 5.3 Striker’s end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the striker’s end 
(see paragraph 4.3), to one side of the pitch or the other, depending on 
his/her choice, for the current delivery. 
 5.4 On-field	umpires shall mean, collectively, the bowler’s end umpire and 
the striker’s end umpire.
 5.5 Third umpire is the umpire who may use television evidence and other 
available	technology	in	order	review	a	decision	of	the	on-field	umpires,	
either by way of an Umpire Review or a Player Review under the 
protocol set out in Appendix D.
 5.6 Umpires together agree applies to decisions which the umpires are to 
make jointly, independently of the players.
 5.7 Decision Review System or DRS is the process covered by the Decision 
Review System and Third Umpire Protocol set out in Appendix D, under 
which the third umpire may be consulted in relation to a decision of the 
on-field	umpires,	either	by	way	of	an	Umpire	Review	or	a	Player	Review.
 5.8 Player Review is the process set out in Appendix D by which a player 
may	request	a	review	of	any	decision	taken	by	the	on-field	umpires	
concerning whether or not a batsman is dismissed (with the exception 
of	‘Timed	out’).
 5.9 Umpire Review is the process set out in Appendix D by which an 
on-field	umpire	has	the	discretion	to	refer	a	decision	to	the	third	umpire	
or, under certain circumstances, to consult with the third umpire before 
making a decision.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.86 5.87 9.4 The Illegal Bowling Regulations are the ICC’s regulations governing 
Illegal Bowling Actions.
 9.5 An Illegal Bowling Action is a bowling action where a bowler’s Elbow 
Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured from the point at which the 
bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the point at which the ball 
is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for the 
purposes of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).
 9.6 Elbow Extension means the motion that occurs when a bowler’s arm 
moves	from	a	flexed	(bent)	position	at	the	elbow,	to	a	more	extended	
(straight) position (full Elbow Extension occurs when the arm is straight).
 9.7 Elbow Hyperextension is the motion that occurs when a bowler’s 
elbow extends beyond the straight position.
 9.8 The ICC Bowling Action Report Form is the form provided for by Article 
3 of the Illegal Bowling Regulations, by which an umpire and/or the 
ICC Match Referee may submit a report relating to a suspected Illegal 
Bowling Action.
 10 THE BALL
 10.1 The ball is struck/strikes the ball unless	specifically	defined	otherwise,	
mean	‘the	ball	is	struck	by	the	bat’/‘strikes	the	ball	with	the	bat’.
 10.2 Rebounds directly/strikes directly and	similar	phrases	mean	‘without	
contact	with	any	fielder’	but	do	not	exclude	contact	with	the	ground.
 10.3 Full-pitch describes a ball delivered by the bowler that reaches or 
passes the striker without having touched the ground. Sometimes 
described as non-pitching.
 11 RUNS
 11.1 A run to be disallowed is one that in these Playing Conditions should 
not have been taken. It is not only to be cancelled but the batsmen are 
to be returned to their original ends. 
 11.2 A run not to be scored is one that is not illegal, but is not recognised 
as a properly executed run. It is not a run that has been made, so the 
question of cancellation does not arise. The loss of the run so attempted 
is not a disallowance and the batsmen will not be returned to their 
original ends on that account. 
 12 THE PERSON
 12.1 Person;	A	player’s	person	is	his/her	physical	person	(flesh	and	blood)	
together with any clothing or legitimate external protective equipment 
that he is wearing except, in the case of a batsman, his/her bat.
  A hand, whether gloved or not, that is not holding the bat is part of the 
batsman’s person.
  No item of clothing or equipment is part of the player’s person unless it 
is attached to him.
  For a batsman, a glove being held but not worn is part of his/her person.
	 	 For	a	fielder,	an	item	of	clothing	or	equipment	he	is	holding	in	his/her	
hand or hands is not part of his person. 7 FIELDERS
 7.1 Fielding side is	the	side	currently	fielding,	whether	or	not	play	is	in	progress.
 7.2 Member	of	the	fielding	side	is one of the players nominated by the 
captain	of	the	fielding	side,	or	any	authorised	replacement	or	substitute	
for such nominated player. 
 7.3 Fielder is one of the 11 or fewer players who together represent the 
fielding	side	on	the	field	of	play.	This	definition	includes	not	only	both	
the bowler and the wicket-keeper but also nominated players who 
are	legitimately	on	the	field	of	play,	together	with	players	legitimately	
acting as substitutes for absent nominated players. It excludes any 
nominated	player	who	is	absent	from	the	field	of	play,	or	who	has	been	
absent	from	the	field	of	play	and	who	has	not	yet	obtained	the	umpire’s	
permission to return. 
	 	 A	player	going	briefly	outside	the	boundary	in	the	course	of	discharging	
his/her	duties	as	a	fielder	is	not	absent	from	the	field	of	play	nor,	for	the	
purposes	of	clause	24.2	(Fielder	absent	or	leaving	the	field	of	play),	is	he	
to	be	regarded	as	having	left	the	field	of	play.
 8 SUBSTITUTES AND CONCUSSION REPLACEMENTS
 8.1 A Substitute	is	a	player	who	takes	the	place	of	a	fielder	on	the	field	of	play, 	
but does not replace the player for whom he substitutes on that side’s list 
of	nominated	players.	A	substitute’s	activities	are	limited	to	fielding.
 8.2  A Concussion Replacement is a player who takes the place of a player 
who has been replaced in accordance with the process set out in clause 
1.2.7, and who for the remainder of the match replaces that player on that 
side’s list of nominated players, being able to take a full part in the match 
(subject to such restrictions as may be imposed by the ICC Match Referee in 
accordance with clause 1.2.8
 8.3  A Concussion Replacement Request	is	the	notification	made	to	the	ICC 	
Match Referee in accordance with the process set out in clause 1.2.7.3
 8.4  The Team Medical Representative is the individual designated as having 
responsibility for the assessment of any head or neck injury sustained by a 
player as set out in clause 1.2.7.2
9 BOWLERS
 9.1 Over the wicket/round the wicket	–	If,	as	the	bowler	runs	up	between	
the wicket and the return crease, the wicket is on the same side as his 
bowling arm, he is bowling over the wicket. If the return crease is on the 
same side as his bowling arm, he is bowling round the wicket.
 9.2 Delivery swing is the motion of the bowler’s arm during which he 
normally releases the ball for a delivery.
 9.3 Delivery stride is the stride during which the delivery swing is made, 
whether the ball is released or not. It starts when the bowler’s back foot 
lands for that stride and ends when the front foot lands in the same 
stride. The stride after the delivery stride is completed when the next 
foot lands, i.e. when the back foot of the delivery stride lands again.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.88 5.89 13 OFF SIDE/ON SIDE; IN FRONT OF/  
BEHIND THE POPPING CREASE 12.2 Clothing	–	anything	that	a	player	is	wearing,	including	such	items	
as spectacles or jewellery, that is not classed as external protective 
equipment is classed as clothing, even though he may be wearing 
some items of apparel, which are not visible, for protection. A bat being 
carried	by	a	batsman	does	not	come	within	this	definition	of	clothing.
 12.3 Hand for batsman or wicket-keeper shall include both the hand itself 
and the whole of a glove worn on the hand.
Behind the 
popping crease
Off side
In front of the 
popping crease
Off sideBehind the 
popping crease
On side (leg side)
In front of the 
popping crease
On side (leg side)WICKET-KEEPER
UMPIREBOWLERRight-handed strikerICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.90 5.91	 1.3	 Specifications	for	the	Blade
 1.3.1 The blade has a face, a back, a toe, sides and shoulders
 1.3.1.1 The face of the blade is its main striking surface and shall be 
flat	or	have	a	slight	convex	curve	resulting	from	traditional 	
pressing techniques. The back is the opposite surface.
 1.3.1.2 The shoulders, sides and toe are the remaining surfaces, 
separating the face and the back.
 1.3.1.3 The shoulders, one on each side of the handle, are along 
that	portion	of	the	blade	between	the	first	entry	point	of	
the	handle	and	the	point	at	which	the	blade	first	reaches	
its full width.
 1.3.1.4 The toe is the surface opposite to the shoulders taken  
as a pair.
 1.3.1.5 The sides, one each side of the blade, are along the rest 
of the blade, between the toe and the shoulders.
 1.3.2 No material may be placed on or inserted into the blade other 
than as permitted in paragraph 1.2.4, paragraph 1.3.3, and clause 
5.4 together with the minimal adhesives or adhesive tape used 
solely	for	fixing	these	items,	or	for	fixing	the	handle	to	the	blade.
 1.3.3 Covering the blade. Bats shall have no covering on the blade 
except as permitted in clause 5.4. 
  Any materials referred to above, in clause 5.4 and paragraph 1.4 
below, are to be considered as part of the bat, which must still 
pass	through	the	gauge	as	defined	in	paragraph	1.6.
 1.4 Protection and repair 
 1.4.1 The surface of the blade may be treated with non-solid materials 
to improve resistance to moisture penetration and/or mask 
natural blemishes in the appearance of the wood. Save for the 
purpose of giving a homogeneous appearance by masking 
natural blemishes, such treatment shall not materially alter the 
colour of the blade. 
 1.4.2 Materials can be used for protection and repair as stated in clause 
5.4 and are additional to the blade. Note however clause 5.6.
  Any such material shall not extend over any part of the back of 
the blade except in the case of clause 5.4.1 and then only when it 
is applied as a continuous wrapping covering the damaged area.
  The repair material shall not extend along the length of the blade 
more than 0.79 in/2.0 cm in each direction beyond the limits of 
the damaged area. Where used as a continuous binding, any 
overlapping shall not breach the maximum of 0.04 in/0.1 cm in 
total thickness.
  The use of non-solid material which when dry forms a hard layer 
more than 0.004 in/0.01 cm in thickness is not permitted.
 1.4.3 Permitted coverings, repair material and toe guards, not 
exceeding	their	specified	thicknesses,	may	be	additional	to	the	
dimensions above, but the bat must still pass through the gauge 
as described in paragraph 1.6.APPENDIX B
EQUIPMENT
 1 THE BAT
 1.1 General guidance
 1.1.1 Measurements	–	All	provisions	in	paragraphs	1.2	to	1.6	below	
are subject to the measurements and restrictions stated in the 
Playing Conditions and this Appendix.
 1.1.2 Adhesives	–	Throughout,	adhesives	are	permitted	only	where	
essential and only in minimal quantity.
	 1.2	 Specifications	for	the	Handle
 1.2.1 One end of the handle is inserted into a recess in the blade as a 
means of joining the handle and the blade.
  This lower portion is used purely for joining the blade and 
the handle together. It is not part of the blade but, solely in 
interpreting paragraphs 1.3 and 1.4 below, references to the blade 
shall be considered to extend also to this lower portion of the 
handle where relevant.
 1.2.2 The handle may be glued where necessary and bound with twine 
along the upper portion. 
  Providing clause 5.5 is not contravened, the upper portion may 
be covered with materials solely to provide a surface suitable for 
gripping. Such covering is an addition and is not part of the bat, 
except in relation to clause 5.6. The bottom of this grip should not 
extend	below	the	point	defined	in	paragraph	1.2.4	below.
  Twine binding and the covering grip may extend beyond the 
junction of the upper and lower portions of the handle, to cover 
part	of	the	shoulders	of	the	bat	as	defined	in	paragraph	1.3.1.
  No material may be placed on or inserted into the lower portion 
of the handle other than as permitted above together with the 
minimal	adhesives	or	adhesive	tape	used	solely	for	fixing	these	
items,	or	for	fixing	the	handle	to	the	blade.
 1.2.3 Materials in handle	–	As	a	proportion	of	the	total	volume	of	the	
handle, materials other than cane, wood or twine are restricted 
to one-tenth. Such materials must not project more than 3.25 
in/8.26 cm into the lower portion of the handle.
 1.2.4 Binding and covering of handle	–	The	permitted	continuation	
beyond the junction of the upper and lower portions of the 
handle is restricted to a maximum, measured along the length of 
the handle, of
  2.5 in/6.35 cm in for the twine binding.
  2.75 in/6.99 cm for the covering grip.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.92 5.93 2 THE WICKETS
 2.1 Bails
  Overall 4.31 in/10.95 cm
  a = 1.38 in/3.50 cm
  b = 2.13 in/5.40 cm
  c = 0.81 in/2.06 cm
 2.2 Stumps
  Height (d) = 28 in/71.1 cm
  Diameter (e) - maximum = 1.5 in/3.81 cm; minimum = 1.38 in/3.50 cm
 2.3 Overall
  Width (f) of wicket 9 in/22.86 cm	 1.5	 Commercial	identifications	
	 	 Such	identifications	shall	comply	with	the	restrictions	set	out	in	the	
Clothing and Equipment Regulations in relation to the size and position 
of marks and logos.
 1.6 Bat Gauge
	 	 All	bats	must	meet	the	specifications	defined	in	clause	5.7.	They	must	
also, with or without protective coverings permitted in clause 5.4, be 
able to pass through a bat gauge, the dimensions and shape of which 
are shown in the following diagram:
  DIMENSIONS OF APERTURE
  Total Depth: 2.68 in/6.8 cm
  Width: 4.33 in/11.0 cm
  Edge: 1.61 in/4.1 cm
  Curve: 0.20 in/0.5 cm
  Note: The curve of the lower edge of the aperture is an arc of a circle  
of radius 12.0 in/30.5 cm, whose centre is on the vertical centre line of 
the aperture.e e edb ba a c c
Depth 6.8cmEdge
4.1cmWidth 11.0cm
0.5cmICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.94 5.95APPENDIX C
THE VENUE
 1 THE PITCH AND THE CREASES 3 WICKET-KEEPING GLOVES
 3.1 The images below illustrate the requirements of clause 27.2 in relation to:
	 •	 no	webbing	between	the	fingers;
	 •	 a	single	piece	of	non-stretch	material	between	finger	and	thumb	as	a	
means of support; and
 • when a hand wearing the glove has the thumb fully extended, the 
top edge being taut and not protruding beyond the straight line 
joining	the	top	of	the	index	finger	to	the	top	of	the	thumb.
 3.2 Note also the requirement for wicket-keeping gloves to comply with 
the Clothing and Equipment Regulations in relation to the size and 
position of marks and logos.
5ft/1.52m
Minimum
15 yards/13.71mProtected Area
Indicators
Popping
CreaseReturn
Crease
Return
CreaseBowling
Crease
Protected
Area
Indicators
Minimum
8ft/2.44m9in/22.86cm4ft/1.22cm
8ft 8in 
/2.64m1ft
30.48cm
22yds/20.12m17in/43.18cmWide
Guidelines
ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.96 5.97 3 ADVERTISING ON GROUNDS, PERIMETER BOARDS  
AND SIGHT-SCREENS
 3.1 Advertising on grounds
	 3.1.1	 The	logos	on	outfields	are	to	be	positioned	as	follows:	
	 a)	 Behind	the	stumps	–	a	minimum	of	25.15	yards	(23	meters)	
from the stumps. 
	 b)	 Midwicket/cover	area	–	no	advertising	to	be	positioned	
within 30 yards (27.50 meters) of the centre of the pitch 
being used for the match. 
 3.1.2 Note: Advertising closer to the stumps as set out above which 
is required to meet 3D requirements for broadcasters may be 
permitted, subject to prior ICC approval having been obtained. 
 3.2 Perimeter boards
 3.2.1 Advertising on perimeter boards placed in front of the sight-
screens is permitted save that the predominant colour of such 
advertising shall be of a contrasting colour to that of the ball. 
 3.2.2 Advertising on perimeter boards behind the stumps at both 
ends	shall	not	contain	moving,	flashing	or	flickering	images	and	
operators should ensure that the images are only changed or 
moved at a time that will not be distracting to the players or  
the umpires. 
 3.2.3 The brightness of any electronic images shall be set at a level so 
that it is not a distraction to the players or umpires.
 3.3 Sight-screens 
 3.3.1 Sight-screens shall be provided at both ends of all grounds.
 3.3.2 Advertising shall be permitted on the sight-screen behind the striker, 
providing it is removed for the subsequent over from that end.
	 3.3.3	 Such	advertising	shall	not	contain	flashing	or	flickering	images	and 	
particular care should be taken by the operators that the advertising 
is not changed at a time which is distracting to the umpire.
 4 MARKINGS ON OUTFIELD
 With the permission of the Ground Authority, a bowler may use paint to make 
a	small	marking	on	the	outfield	for	the	purposes	of	identifying	their	run-up.	
Paint used for this purpose shall be any colour other than white. 2 RESTRICTION ON THE PLACEMENT OF FIELDERS
 
Continuous white line, or dots
at 5 yard (4.5 metre) intervals
30 yard (27.5 metre) radiusfrom middle of stump
30 yard (27.5 metre) radiusfrom middle of stumpICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.98 5.99 1.1.6 The table below summarises the minimum requirements for DRS 
to be used, and the regulations around the appointment of the 
third umpire:
THIRD UMPIRE (NON-DRS) DRS
Minimum 
RequirementCameras	Specification	
detailed in paragraph 1.1.2.Cameras
–	Specification	detailed	
in paragraph 1.1.2. 
Technology.
–	Approved	ball-tracking	
technology.
–	Approved	
sound-based edge 
detection technology.
Third Umpire 
AppointmentAppointed by Home Board. 
From the home country. 
From ICC Elite Panel  
or International Panel  
of umpires.Appointed by the  
Home Board.
From ICC Elite Panel  
or International Panel  
of umpires.
Third Umpire 
JurisdictionUmpire Reviews only. Umpire Reviews and 
Player Reviews.
Replays that 
can be usedThe third umpire shall only 
have access to replays of 
any camera images. Other 
technology which may be 
in use by the broadcaster 
for broadcast purposes 
(for example, ball-tracking 
technology, sound-based 
edge detection technology, 
and heat-based edge 
detection technology)  
shall not be used during 
Umpire Reviews.Any replay, stump 
microphone audio or 
technology detailed in 
paragraph 3.8.1 below.
ICC Technical 
OfficerNot required. The ICC shall appoint an 
independent technology 
expert (ICC Technical 
Officer)	to	be	present	
at every series in which 
the DRS is used to assist 
the third umpire and to 
protect the integrity of 
the DRS process.
 1.1.7 The Home Board shall ensure that a separate room is provided 
for the third umpire and that he/she has access to the television 
equipment and technology (where DRS is used) so as to be in 
the best position to facilitate the referral and/or consultation 
processes referred to in paragraphs 2 (Umpire Review) and 3 
(Player Review) below.APPENDIX D
DECISION REVIEW SYSTEM (DRS)  
AND THIRD UMPIRE PROTOCOL
 1 GENERAL
 1.1 Minimum requirements for use of DRS and appointment of third umpire
 1.1.1 Save with the express written consent of the ICC General 
Manager	–	Cricket,	the	Home	Board	shall	ensure	the	live	
television broadcast of all T20I matches played in its country.
	 1.1.2	 Where	matches	are	broadcast,	the	camera	specification	set	out	
below shall be mandatory as a minimum requirement.
 
	 1.1.3	 Where	the	camera	specification	set	out	above	is	provided,	a	third	
umpire shall be appointed to the match.
 1.1.4 The provisions of paragraphs 1.1.1, 1.1.2, and 1.1.3 above shall not 
apply for matches between a Full Member country and Associate 
Member countries (whose matches have been granted T20I status) 
and for matches between such Associate Member countries.
	 1.1.5	 If	the	minimum	requirements	for	DRS	to	be	used	are	satisfied,	both 	
participating Boards may agree to employ the DRS for a T20I match. 
Otherwise, the third umpire shall be appointed and empowered to 
use broadcast replays to make decisions that are referred to him/her 
in accordance with paragraph 2 (Umpire Reviews).Run Out Camera 1
Run Out Camera 2Run Out Camera 3
Run Out Camera 4Ball Follow 1
Ball Follow 2ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.100 5.101	 2.2.2	 Should	both	on-field	umpires	require	assistance	from	the	third 	
umpire	to	make	a	decision,	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	shall	firstly 	
take	a	decision	on-field	after	consulting	with	the	striker’s	end 	
umpire, before consulting by two-way radio with the third umpire. 
Such consultation shall be initiated by the bowler’s end umpire to 
the third umpire by making the shape of a TV screen with his/her 
hands, followed by a Soft Signal of Out or Not out made with the 
hands close to the chest at chest height. If the third umpire advises 
that	the	replay	evidence	is	inconclusive,	the	on-field	decision 	
communicated at the start of the consultation process shall stand.
 2.2.3 The third umpire shall determine whether the batsman has been 
caught, whether the delivery was a Bump Ball, or if the batsman 
obstructed	the	field.	However,	in	reviewing	the	television	
replay(s),	the	third	umpire	shall	first	check	the	fairness	of	the	
delivery for all decisions involving a catch (all modes of No ball 
except for the bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action, subject to 
the proviso that the third umpire may review whether the bowler 
has	used	a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	
Illegal Bowling Regulations) and whether the batsman has hit the 
ball. If the delivery was not a fair delivery or if it is clear to the 
third umpire that the batsman did not hit the ball he/she shall 
indicate to the bowler’s end umpire that the batsman is Not out 
caught, and in the case of an unfair delivery, advise the bowler’s 
end umpire to signal No ball. See also paragraph 2.5 below. 
Additionally, if it is clear to the third umpire that the batsman is 
Out by another mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), or Not out by 
any mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), he/she shall notify the 
bowler’s end umpire so that the correct decision can be made.
 2.2.4 The third umpire shall communicate his/her decision as set out in 
paragraph 2.1.5.
 2.3 Boundary Decisions
 2.3.1 The bowler’s end umpire shall be entitled to refer to the third 
umpire for a decision on:
 2.3.1.1 whether a four or six has been scored;
	 2.3.1.2	 whether	a	fielder	had	any	part	of	his/her	person	in	
contact with the ball when he touched the boundary; or
	 2.3.1.3	 whether	the	fielder	had	any	part	of	his/her	person	in	
contact with the ball when he had any part of his person 
grounded beyond the boundary.
 2.3.2 A decision shall be made immediately and cannot be  
changed thereafter.
 2.3.3 If the television evidence is inconclusive as to whether or not a 
boundary has been scored, the default presumption shall be in 
favour of no boundary being awarded.
 2.3.4 Where the bowler’s end umpire wishes to use the assistance of 
the third umpire in this circumstance, he/she shall communicate 
with the third umpire by use of a two-way radio and the third 
umpire shall convey his/her decision to the bowler’s end umpire 
by the same method. 2 UMPIRE REVIEW
 In the circumstances detailed in paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4 below, the 
on-field	umpire	shall	have	the	discretion	to	refer	the	decision	to	the	third	
umpire or, in the case of paragraphs 2.2, and 2.4, to consult with the third 
umpire before making the decision.
 Save for requesting the umpire to review his/her decision under paragraph 3 
(Player	Review)	below,	players	may	not	appeal	to	the	on-field	umpires	to	use	
the Umpire Review. Breach of this provision may constitute dissent and the 
player may be subject to disciplinary action under the ICC Code of Conduct 
for Players and Player Support Personnel.
 2.1 Run Out, Stumped, Bowled and Hit Wicket Decisions
	 2.1.1	 The	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	be	entitled	to	refer	an	appeal	
for run-out, stumped, bowled or hit wicket to the third umpire.
	 2.1.2	 An	on-field	umpire	wishing	to	refer	a	decision	to	the	third	umpire	
shall signal to the third umpire by making the shape of a TV 
screen with his/her hands.
 2.1.3 In the case of a referral of a bowled, hit wicket or stumped 
decision,	the	third	umpire	shall	first	check	the	fairness	of	the	
delivery (all modes of No ball except for the bowler using an 
Illegal Bowling Action, subject to the proviso that the third 
umpire may review whether the bowler has used a prohibited 
Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	Bowling	
Regulations). If the delivery was not a fair delivery the third 
umpire shall indicate that the batsman is Not out and advise the 
on-field	umpire	to	signal	No	ball.	See	also	paragraph	2.5	below.
	 2.1.4	 Additionally,	if	the	third	umpire	finds	the	batsman	is	Out	by	
another mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), or Not out by any 
mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), he/she shall notify the 
on-field	umpire	so	that	the	correct	decision	is	made.
 2.1.5 If the third umpire decides that the batsman is Out, a red light 
shall be displayed; if the third umpire decides that the batsman is 
Not out, a green light shall be displayed. Should the third umpire 
be temporarily unable to respond, a white light (where available) 
shall remain illuminated throughout the period of interruption 
to	signify	to	the	on-field	umpires	that	Umpire	Reviews	are	
temporarily unavailable, in which case the decision shall be taken 
by	the	on-field	umpire.	As	an	alternative	to	the	red/green	light	
system, the replay screen (where available) may be used for the 
purpose of conveying the third umpire’s decision, in line with the 
ICC Big Screen Policy.
 2.2 Caught Decisions, Obstructing the Field
 2.2.1 Where the bowler’s end umpire is unable to decide upon a Fair 
Catch	or	a	Bump	Ball,	or	if,	on	appeal	from	the	fielding	side,	the	
batsman	obstructed	the	field,	he/she	shall	first	consult	with	the	
striker’s end umpire.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.102 5.103	 2.6.2	 Where	an	on-field	umpire	wishes	to	use	the	assistance	of	the	
third umpire in this circumstance, he/she shall communicate with 
the third umpire by use of a two-way radio and the third umpire 
shall convey his/her decision to the bowler’s end umpire by the 
same method.
 2.6.3 A decision shall be made immediately and cannot be changed 
thereafter. If the television evidence is inconclusive as to whether 
or not the ball has come into contact with any part of the camera, 
its apparatus or its cables above the playing area, the default 
presumption shall be in favour of no contact having been made.
	 2.6.4	 The	third	umpire	may	initiate	contact	with	the	on-field	umpire	
by two-way radio if TV coverage shows the ball to have been 
in contact with any part of the camera or its cables above the 
playing area as envisaged under this paragraph.
 3 PLAYER REVIEW
 The following paragraphs shall operate in addition to and in conjunction with 
paragraph 2 (Umpire Review).
 3.1 Circumstances in which a Player Review may be requested
 3.1.1 A player may request a review of any decision taken by the 
on-field	umpires	concerning	whether	or	not	a	batsman	is	
dismissed,	with	the	exception	of	‘Timed	Out’	(Player	Review).
 3.1.2 No other decisions made by the umpires are eligible for a Player 
Review with the exception of Fair Catch/Bump Ball (even after the 
third umpire has been consulted and the decision communicated).
 3.1.3 Only the batsman involved in a dismissal may request a Player 
Review of an Out decision and only the captain (or acting 
captain)	of	the	fielding	team	may	request	a	Player	Review	of	a	
Not out decision.
 3.1.4 A decision concerning whether or not a batsman is dismissed that 
could have been the subject of a Umpire Review under paragraph 
2 is eligible for a Player Review as soon as it is clear that the 
on-field	umpire	has	chosen	not	to	initiate	the	Umpire	Review.
 3.2 The manner of requesting the Player Review
	 3.2.1	 The	request	shall	be	made	by	the	player	making	a	‘T’	sign	with	
both forearms at head height.
 3.2.2 The total time elapsed between the ball becoming dead and the 
review request being made shall be no more than 15 seconds. 
The only exception permitted shall be when an Umpire Review 
for Fair Catch or Bump Ball (as permitted in paragraph 2.2 above) 
is required to answer an appeal for a caught decision, in which 
case either team is able to request a Player Review of that caught 
decision within 15 seconds of the decision being communicated. 
The bowler’s end umpire shall provide the relevant player with 
a prompt after 10 seconds if the request has not been made at 
that time and the player shall request the review immediately 
thereafter.	If	the	on-field	umpires	believe	that	a	request	has	not	
been made within the 15 second time limit, they shall decline the 
request for a Player Review.	 2.3.5	 The	third	umpire	may	initiate	contact	with	the	on-field	umpire	
by two-way radio if TV coverage shows a boundary line 
infringement or incident that appears not to have been acted 
upon	by	the	on-field	umpires.
 2.4 Batsmen Running to the Same End
	 2.4.1	 Where	both	batsmen	have	run	to	the	same	end	and	the	on-field	
umpires are uncertain over which batsman made his/her ground 
first,	the	on-field	umpires	may	consult	with	the	third	umpire.
 2.4.2 The procedure set out in paragraph 2.3.4 shall apply.
 2.5 No Balls
 2.5.1 If the bowler’s end umpire is uncertain as to the fairness of the 
delivery following a dismissal, either affecting the validity of the 
dismissal or which batsman is dismissed, he/she shall be entitled 
to	request	the	batsman	to	delay	leaving	the	field	and	to	check	
the fairness of the delivery with the third umpire. Communication 
with the third umpire shall be by two-way radio.
 2.5.2 The third umpire shall check all modes of No ball except for the 
bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action (subject to the proviso 
that the third umpire may review whether the bowler has used 
a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	
Bowling Regulations). The third umpire shall apply clause 21.5 
when deciding whether a No ball should have been called (and 
must	therefore	be	satisfied	that	none	of	the	three	conditions	in	
clause 21.5 have been met before calling a No ball).
 2.5.3 If the delivery was not a fair delivery, the bowler’s end umpire 
shall indicate that the batsman is Not out and signal No ball 
(except	in	the	case	of	a	dismissal	for	obstructing	the	field,	which	
may still be effected despite a No ball being called, in which case 
the bowler’s end umpire shall indicate that the relevant batsman 
is Out and additionally call a No ball).
 2.5.4 If a No ball is called following the check by the third umpire, the 
batting	side	shall	benefit	from	the	reversal	of	the	dismissal	and	
the	one	run	for	the	No	ball,	but	shall	not	benefit	from	any	runs	
that may subsequently have accrued from the delivery had the 
on-field	umpire	originally	called	a	No	ball.	Where	the	batsmen	
crossed while the ball was in the air before being caught, the 
batsmen shall remain at the same ends as if the striker had been 
dismissed, but no runs shall be credited to the striker even if one 
(or more) runs were completed prior to the catch being taken.
 2.6 Cameras On or Over the Field of Play
	 2.6.1	 The	on-field	umpires	shall	be	entitled	to	refer	to	the	third	umpire	
for a decision as to whether the ball has at any time during the 
normal course of play come into contact with any part of the 
camera, its apparatus or its cables above the playing area, as 
contemplated in clause 20.1.3.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.104 5.105 3.3.4 The third umpire shall not withhold any factual information 
which may help in the decision making process. In particular, 
in reviewing a dismissal, if the third umpire believes that the 
batsman may instead be Out by any other mode of dismissal, he/
she	shall	advise	the	on-field	umpire	accordingly.	The	process	of	
consultation described in this paragraph in respect of such other 
mode of dismissal shall then be conducted as if the batsman has 
been given Not out.
 3.3.5 The third umpire shall initially check all modes of No ball except 
for the bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action (subject to the 
proviso that the third umpire may review whether the bowler has 
used	a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	
Bowling	Regulations),	where	appropriate	advising	the	on-field	
umpire accordingly.
 3.3.6 If despite the available technology, the third umpire is unable 
to	decide	with	a	high	degree	of	confidence	whether	the	original	
on-field	decision	should	be	changed,	then	he/she	shall	report	
that	the	replays	are	‘inconclusive’,	and	that	the	on-field	decision	
shall stand. The third umpire shall not give answers conveying 
likelihoods or probabilities.
 3.3.7 In circumstances where the television technology (all or parts 
thereof) is not available to the third umpire or fails for whatever 
reason,	the	third	umpire	shall	advise	the	on-field	umpire	of	this	
fact but still provide any relevant factual information that  
may be ascertained from the available television replays and 
other technology.
	 3.3.8	 The	on-field	umpire	shall	then	make	his/her	decision	based	on	
the information provided by the third umpire, any other factual 
information offered by the third umpire and his/her recollection 
and opinion of the original incident.
	 3.3.9	 The	on-field	umpire	shall	reverse	his/her	decision	if	the	nature	of	the 	
supplementary information received from the third umpire leads 
him/her to conclude that his/her original decision was incorrect.
 3.4 Review of LBW Decisions
 3.4.1 In assessing whether a batsman is Out LBW in accordance with 
clause	36,	the	third	umpire	shall	first	judge	whether	the	delivery	
is fair (as set out in clause 36.1.1), and second, whether or not the 
ball has touched the bat before being intercepted by any part of 
the striker’s person (as set out in clause 36.1.3).
 3.4.2 If the batsman is still eligible to be Out, the ball-tracking 
technology shall then present three pieces of information to the 
third umpire relating to the path of the ball:
 3.4.2.1 The point of pitching (where applicable) (PITCHING).
	 3.4.2.2	 The	position	of	the	ball	at	the	point	of	first	interception	
(IMPACT).
 3.4.2.3 Whether the ball would have hit the wicket (WICKET).	 3.2.3	 The	captain	may	consult	with	the	bowler	and	other	fielders,	and	
the two batsmen may consult with each other prior to deciding 
whether to request a Player Review. Under no circumstances 
is any player permitted to query an umpire about any aspect 
of a decision before deciding on whether or not to request a 
Player	Review.	If	the	on-field	umpires	believe	that	the	captain	or	
either batsman has received direct or indirect input emanating 
other	than	from	the	players	on	the	field,	then	they	may	at	their	
discretion decline the request for a Player Review. In particular, 
signals from the dressing room must not be given.
 3.2.4 No replays, either at normal speed or slow motion, shall be 
shown on a big screen to spectators until the 15 second time limit 
allowed for requesting a Player Review has elapsed. The only 
exception to this provision is where a Player Review of a caught 
decision is requested after the Umpire Review of a Fair Catch or 
Bump Ball has concluded, as detailed in paragraph 3.2.2 above 
(due to the fact that replays may have been shown on the big 
screen during that Umpire Review process).
	 3.2.5	 Where	either	on-field	umpire	initiates	an	Umpire	Review,	this	
does not preclude a player seeking a Player Review of a separate 
incident from the same delivery. The request for a Player Review 
may be made after the Umpire Review, provided the request is 
still within the 15 second time limit described in paragraph 3.2.2 
above. (See paragraphs 3.9.2 and 3.9.3 below for the process for 
addressing both an Umpire and Player Review).
 3.2.6 A request for a Player Review cannot be withdrawn once it has 
been made.
 3.3 The process of consultation
 3.3.1 On receipt of an eligible and timely request for a Player Review, 
the	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	make	the	sign	of	a	shape	of	a	
TV screen with his/her hands in the normal way.
	 3.3.2	 The	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	initiate	communication	with	
the	third	umpire	by	confirming;
 3.3.2.1 That a Player Review has been requested,
	 3.3.2.2	 The	mode	of	dismissal	for	which	the	relevant	on-field	
umpire adjudicated the appeal,
 3.3.2.3 The decision that has been made (Out or Not out), and;
 3.3.2.4 For LBW appeals, where relevant, if the bowler’s end 
umpire believed that the striker made no genuine 
attempt to play the ball with the bat (the default 
presumption of the third umpire in the absence of any 
information on this point from the bowler’s end umpire 
shall be that a genuine attempt to play the ball with the 
bat was made).
 3.3.3 A two-way consultation process shall begin to investigate 
whether there is anything that the third umpire can see or hear 
which	would	indicate	that	the	on-field	umpire	should	change	his/
her original decision.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.106 5.107 3.4.5.3 The ball-tracking technology shall report that the 
point	of	first	interception	was	in	one	of	the	following	
categories in relation to the Impact Zone:
In Line The centre of the ball was inside the Impact Zone.
Umpire’s 
CallSome part of the ball was inside the Impact 
Zone, but the centre of the ball was outside the 
Impact Zone, with the further sub-category of 
‘Umpire’s	Call	(off	side)’	where	the	centre	of	the	
ball was to the off side of the Impact Zone and 
the bowler’s end umpire communicates to the 
third umpire that no genuine attempt to play 
the ball was made by the batsman.
Outside No part of the ball was inside the Impact Zone, 
with	the	further	sub-categories	of	‘Outside	
(off)’	and	‘Outside	(leg)’	to	indicate	the	location	
of	the	point	of	first	interception	in	relation	to	
the Impact Zone when the bowler’s end umpire 
communicates to the third umpire that no 
genuine attempt to play the ball was made by 
the batsman.
 3.4.5.4 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made a genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	In	Line	for	the	
batsman to be eligible to be given Out, otherwise the 
batsman shall remain Not out.
 3.4.5.5 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made no genuine attempt 
to play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that the point of impact was In Line, or Umpire’s Call (off 
side), or Outside (off) for the batsman to be eligible to be 
given Out, otherwise the batsman shall remain Not out.
 3.4.5.6 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made a genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	Outside	for	
the decision to be reversed to Not out, otherwise the 
batsman shall remain eligible to be given Out.
 3.4.5.7 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batsman has made no genuine attempt 
to play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	Outside	(leg)	for	
the decision to be reversed to Not out, otherwise the 
batsman shall remain eligible to be given Out. 3.4.3 This Decision Review System (DRS) and Third Umpire Protocol 
includes a category of Umpire’s Call, which shall be the 
conclusion reported where the technology indicates a marginal 
decision	in	respect	of	either	the	point	of	first	interception	or	
whether the ball would have hit the stumps.
 3.4.4 PITCHING
 3.4.4.1 The interpretation of “pitches in line between wicket and 
wicket” in clause 36.1.2 shall refer to the position of the 
centre of the ball at the point of pitching, in relation to 
the Pitching Zone.
	 3.4.4.2	 The	Pitching	Zone	is	defined	as	a	two	dimensional	area	
on the pitch between both sets of stumps with its 
boundaries consisting of the base of both sets of stumps 
and a line between the outside of the outer stumps at 
each end.
 3.4.4.3 Where applicable, the ball-tracking technology shall 
report that the ball pitched in one of the following three 
areas in relation to the Pitching Zone:
In Line The centre of the ball was inside  
the Pitching Zone.
Outside Off The centre of the ball was outside,  
and to the off side of, the Pitching Zone.
Outside Leg The centre of the ball was outside,  
and to the leg side of, the Pitching Zone.
 3.4.4.4 Subject to the satisfaction of the other elements of 
clause 36.1, the batsman can be Out if the ball-tracking 
technology reports that the ball pitched Outside Off 
or In Line, but the batsman shall be Not out if the ball 
pitched Outside Leg.
 3.4.5 IMPACT
	 3.4.5.1	 The	interpretation	of	“the	(first)	point	of	impact,	even	 
if in above the level of the bails, is between wicket  
and wicket” in clause 36.1.4 shall refer to position of the 
ball	at	the	point	of	first	interception,	in	relation	to	the	
Impact Zone.
	 3.4.5.2	 The	Impact	Zone	is	defined	as	a	three	dimensional	space	
extending	between	both	wickets	to	an	indefinite	height	
and with its boundaries consisting of a line between the 
outside of the outer stumps at each end.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.108 5.109 3.4.9 The third umpire shall advise the bowler’s end umpire only on 
the	point	of	first	interception	and	whether	the	ball	would	have	
hit the stumps (in line with the process set out in paragraph 3.4 
above), but shall make no comment on the predicted height 
of the ball after pitching, which shall remain a judgment of the 
bowler’s end umpire.
	 3.5	 The	process	for	communicating	the	final	decision
 3.5.1 For Player Reviews concerning potential dismissals, the relevant 
on-field	umpire	shall	indicate	Out	by	raising	his/her	finger	above	
his/her head in a normal yet prominent manner or indicate Not 
out	by	the	call	of	‘not	out’	and	by	crossing	his/her	hands	in	a	
horizontal position side to side in front and above his/her waist 
three	times.	Where	the	decision	is	a	reversal	of	the	on-field	
umpire’s	previous	decision,	he/she	shall	make	the	‘revoke	last	
signal’ indication immediately prior to the above.
 3.5.2 If the mode of dismissal is not obvious or not the same as that 
on which the original decision was based, then the umpire shall 
advise the scorers via the third umpire.
 3.6 Number of Player Review requests permitted
 3.6.1 In each innings, each team shall be allowed to make a maximum 
of	one	Player	Review	request	that	is	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	
(as set out in paragraph 3.6.3 below).
 3.6.2 Where a request for a Player Review results in the original 
on-field	decision	being	reversed,	then	the	Player	Review	shall	
be	categorised	as	‘Successful’	and	shall	not	count	towards	the	
innings limit.
 3.6.3 Where a request for a Player Review results in the original 
on-field	decision	remaining	unchanged	(other	than	in	the	
circumstances set out in paragraphs 3.6.4, 3.6.6 or 3.6.8), the Player 
Review shall be categorised as ’Unsuccessful’.
 3.6.4 Where a request for a Player Review of an LBW decision results 
in	the	on-field	decision	remaining	unchanged	solely	on	the	basis	
of an Umpire’s Call, the Player Review shall be categorised as 
‘Unchanged	–	Umpire’s	Call’.	A	Player	Review	categorised	as	
‘Unchanged	–	Umpire’s	Call’	shall	not	count	towards	the	innings	
limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
 3.6.5 Where, following a request for a Player Review, the original 
on-field	decision	of	Out	is	unchanged,	but	for	a	different	mode	
of	dismissal	from	the	original	on-field	decision,	then	the	Player	
Review shall still be categorised as ’Unsuccessful’.
 3.6.6 Where, following a request for a Player Review, the original 
on-field	decision	of	Not	out	is	unchanged	on	account	of	the	
delivery being a No ball (for any reason), thereby not requiring 
any further evaluation, the Player Review shall not be counted 
as	‘Unsuccessful’	and	accordingly	shall	not	count	towards	the	
innings limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1. 3.4.6 WICKET
 3.4.6.1 The interpretation of whether “the ball would have hit 
the wicket” in clause 36.1.5 shall refer to the position of 
the ball as it either hits or passes the wicket, in relation 
to the Wicket Zone.
	 3.4.6.2	 The	Wicket	Zone	is	defined	as	a	two	dimensional	area	
whose boundaries are the outside of the outer stumps, 
the base of the stumps and the bottom of the bails.
 3.4.6.3 The ball-tracking technology shall report whether the 
ball would have hit the wicket with reference to the 
following three categories:
Hitting The ball was hitting the wicket, and the centre of 
the ball was inside the Wicket Zone.
Umpire’s 
CallThe ball was hitting the wicket, but the centre 
of the ball was not inside the Wicket Zone.
Missing The ball was missing the wicket.
 3.4.6.4 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, the ball-
tracking technology must report that the ball was Hitting 
for the batsman to be eligible to be given Out, otherwise 
the batsman shall remain Not out.
  However, where the evidence shows that the ball was 
Hitting,	the	point	of	first	interception	was	In	Line,	and	
the ball pitched In Line or Outside Off, but that:
	 •	 The	point	of	first	interception	was	300cm	or	more	
from the stumps; or
	 •	 The	point	of	first	interception	was	more	than	250cm	
but less than 300cm from the stumps and the distance 
between	the	point	of	pitching	and	the	point	of	first	
interception was less than 40cm,
	 	 the	on-field	decision	shall	stand	(that	is,	Not	out).
 3.4.6.5 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, the ball-tracking 
technology must report that the ball was Missing for the 
on-field	decision	to	be	reversed	to	Not	out,	otherwise	the 	
batsman shall remain eligible to be given Out.
 3.4.7 When the ball strikes the batsman on the full, and the evidence 
provided by the ball-tracking technology indicates that the ball 
would have pitched before striking or passing the wicket, there 
will be no information available from that delivery that will allow 
the ball-tracking technology to accurately predict the height of 
the ball after pitching.
 3.4.8 With regard to determining whether the ball would have hit the 
wicket under these circumstances, the ball-tracking technology 
shall project the line of the ball in accordance with clause 36.2.3 
(it is to be assumed that the path of the ball before interception 
would have continued after interception, irrespective of whether 
the ball might have pitched subsequently or not), and display the 
simulated path of the ball from directly above the wicket.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.110 5.111 3.7 Dead ball
 3.7.1 If following a Player Review request, an original decision of 
Out is changed to Not out, then the ball is still deemed to have 
become dead when the original decision was made (as per clause 
20.1.1.3).	The	batting	side,	while	benefiting	from	the	reversal	of	the	
dismissal,	shall	not	benefit	from	any	runs	that	may	subsequently	
have	accrued	from	the	delivery	had	the	on-field	umpire	originally	
made a Not out decision, other than any No ball penalty that 
could arise under paragraph 3.3.5 above.
 3.7.2 If an original decision of Not out is changed to Out, the ball 
shall retrospectively be deemed to have become dead from the 
moment of the dismissal event. All subsequent events, including 
any runs scored, shall be ignored.
 3.8 Use of technology
 3.8.1 The following technology may be used by the third umpire during 
a Player Review:
 3.8.1.1 Replays, at any speed, from any available broadcast camera
 3.8.1.2 Sound from the stump microphones with the replays at 
normal speed and slow motion
 3.8.1.3 Approved ball-tracking technology: 
 • HawkEye (HawkEye Innovations), or;
 • VirtualEye (ARL) 
 3.8.1.4 Approved sound-based edge detection technology:
 • Real-Time Snickometer (BBG Sports), or;
 • UltraEdge (HawkEye Innovations)
 3.8.1.5 Approved heat-based edge detection technology:
 • Hot Spot cameras (BBG Sports)
 3.8.1.6 LED Wickets (using the lights to indicate if the wicket is 
broken, as set out in paragraph 4.2):
 • Zing Bails and Stumps
 3.8.2 In addition, other forms of technology may be used subject to 
the	ICC	being	satisfied	that	the	required	standards	of	accuracy	
and	time	efficiency	can	be	met.
 3.8.3 Where practical usage or further testing indicates that any of the 
above forms of technology cannot reliably provide accurate and 
timely information, then it may be removed prior to or during a 
match.	The	final	decision	regarding	the	technology	to	be	used	
in a given match shall be taken by the ICC Match Referee in 
consultation	with	the	ICC	Technical	Official,	ICC	management	and	
the competing teams’ governing bodies. 3.6.7 Where a Player Review and an Umpire Review are requested 
from the same delivery and the decision of the third umpire from 
the Umpire Review renders the Player Review unnecessary (see 
paragraphs 3.9.2 and 3.9.3), the Player Review request shall be 
disregarded and accordingly shall not count towards the innings 
limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
	 3.6.8	 A	Player	Review	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	may	be	reinstated	
by the ICC Match Referee at his/her sole discretion (if appropriate 
after	consultation	with	the	ICC	Technical	Official	and/or	the	
television broadcast director) if the Player Review could not 
properly be concluded due to a failure of the technology. Any 
such	decision	shall	be	final	and	shall	be	taken	as	soon	as	possible,	
being communicated to both teams once all the relevant facts 
have been ascertained by the ICC Match Referee. A Player Review 
categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	shall	not	be	reinstated	if,	despite	
any technical failures, the correct decision could still have been 
made using the other available technology. Similarly, a Player 
Review	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	shall	not	be	reinstated	
where the technology worked as intended, but the evidence 
gleaned from its use was inconclusive.
 3.6.9 The third umpire shall be responsible for counting the number 
Player	Reviews	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	and	shall	advise	the	
on-field	umpires	once	either	team	has	exhausted	their	allowance	
for the innings.
 3.6.10 The scoreboard shall display, for the innings in progress, the 
number of Player Reviews remaining available to each team.
CATEGORY OF 
PLAYER REVIEWOUTCOME  
OF PLAYER 
REVIEW CONSEQUENCE OF 
PLAYER REVIEW
Successful  
(paragraph 3.6.2)On-field	decision	
reversed Does not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
Unsuccessful 
(paragraphs 3.6.3  
and 3.6.5)On-field	decision	
unchangedCounts towards  
innings limit set out  
in paragraph 3.6.1
Unchanged	–	
Umpire’s Call 
(paragraph 3.6.4)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
No	ball	–	no	
evaluation required 
(paragraph 3.6.6)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
Failure of technology 
(paragraph 3.6.8)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.112 5.113APPENDIX E
CALCULATIONS
Table 1: Calculation sheet for use when a delay or interruptions occur  
in the First Innings 
Time 
Net playing time available at start of the match 170 minutes (A) 
Time innings in progress  ___________ (B) 
Playing time lost  ___________ (C) 
Extra time available ___________ (D) 
Time made up from reduced interval  ___________ (E) 
Effective	playing	time	lost	[C	–	(D	+	E)]	 ___________	 (F)	
Remaining	playing	time	available	(A	–	F)	 ___________	 (G)	
G divided by 4.25 (to 2 decimal places) ___________ (H) 
Max	overs	per	team	[H/2]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________	 (	I	)	
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[I/5]		 ___________	
Number of Powerplay overs ___________ 
Rescheduled Playing Hours 
First session to commence or recommence ___________ ( J ) 
Length	of	innings	[I	x	4.25]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________	 (K)	
Rescheduled	first	innings	cessation	time	[J	+	(K	–	B)]		 ___________	 (L)	
Length of interval ___________ (M) 
Second	innings	commencement	time	[L	+	M]	 ___________	 (N)	
Rescheduled	second	innings	cessation	time	[N	+	K]		 ___________	*(O)	
 
*	Ensure	that	the	match	is	not	finishing	earlier	than	the	original	or	rescheduled	
cessation time by applying clause 13.7.2. If so, add at least one over to each team 
and recalculate (I) to (O) above to prevent this from happening.  3.9 Combining Umpire Review with Player Review
 3.9.1 If an Umpire Review (under paragraph 2) and a request for a 
Player Review (under paragraph 3) are made following the 
same delivery but relating to separate modes of dismissal, the 
following process shall apply.
 3.9.2 The Umpire Review shall be carried out prior to the Player Review 
if all of the following conditions apply:
	 3.9.2.1	 The	Player	Review	has	been	requested	by	the	fielding	side.
 3.9.2.2 The Umpire Review and the Player Review both relate to 
the dismissal of the same batsman.
 3.9.2.3 If the batsman is out, the number of runs scored from the 
delivery would be the same for both modes of dismissal.
 3.9.2.4 If the batsman is out, the batsman on strike for the next 
delivery would be the same for both modes of dismissal.
 3.9.3 If the Umpire Review leads the third umpire to make a decision 
of Out, then this shall be displayed in the usual manner and the 
Player Review shall not be undertaken. If the Umpire Review 
results in a Not out decision, then the third umpire shall make 
no public decision but shall proceed to address the request for a 
Player Review.
 3.9.4 For illustration, following an LBW appeal which is given Not 
out by the bowler’s end umpire, the striker sets off for a run, is 
sent back and there is an appeal for his/her run out. The players 
request that the LBW decision is reviewed and the umpires 
request that the run out be reviewed. The four criteria above are 
satisfied,	so	the	run	out	referral	is	determined	first.	Should	the	
appeal for run out be Out, then there is no requirement for the 
LBW review to take place.
 3.9.5 In all other circumstances, the incidents shall be addressed in 
chronological	order.	If	the	conclusion	from	the	first	incident	is	
that a batsman is dismissed, then the ball would be deemed to 
have become dead at that point, rendering investigation of the 
second incident unnecessary.
 4 INTERPRETATION OF PLAYING CONDITIONS
 4.1 When using a replay to determine the moment at which the wicket has 
been put down (as per clause 29.1), the third umpire shall deem this to 
be	the	first	frame	in	which	one	of	the	bails	is	shown	(or	can	be	deduced)	
to have lost all contact with the top of the stumps and subsequent 
frames show the bail permanently removed from the top of the stumps.
 4.2 Where LED Wickets are used (as provided for in paragraph 3.8.1.6) 
the moment at which the wicket has been put down (as per clause 
29.1)	shall	be	deemed	to	be	the	first	frame	in	which	the	LED	lights	are	
illuminated and subsequent frames show the bail permanently removed 
from the top of the stumps.ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05
5.114 5.115Table 4: Calculation sheet for use when interruption occurs  
after the start of the Second Innings 
Time 
Time at start of innings ___________ (A) 
Time at start of interruption ___________ (B) 
Time innings in progress ___________ (C) 
Restart time ___________ (D) 
Length	of	interruption	[D	–	B]	 ___________	(E)	
Additional time available: ___________ (F) 
(Any	unused	provision	for	‘Extra	Time’	 
or for earlier than scheduled start of second innings)  
Total	playing	time	lost	[E	–	F]	 ___________	(G)	
Overs 
Maximum overs at start of innings  ___________ (H) 
Overs	lost	[G/4.25]	(rounded	down)	 ___________	(I)	
Adjusted	maximum	length	of	innings	[H	–	I]	 ___________	(J)	
Rescheduled	length	of	innings	[J	x	4.25	rounded	up]		 ___________	(K)	
Amended	cessation	time	of	innings	[D	+	(K	–	C)]	 ___________	(L)	
Overs per bowler and Fielding Restrictions 
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[J/5]	 ___________	overs
Number of Powerplay overs ___________ oversTable 2: Calculation sheet to check whether an interruption during the First 
Innings should terminate the innings 
Proposed re-start time  ___________ (P) 
Rescheduled cut-off time allowing for full use  
of any extra time provision  ___________ (Q) 
Minutes between P and Q ___________ (R) 
Potential	overs	to	be	bowled	[R/4.25]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________	(S)	
Number	of	complete	overs	faced	to	date	in	first	innings	 ___________	(T)	
If S is greater than T then revert to Table 1 
If	S	is	less	than	or	equal	to	T	then	the	first	innings	is	terminated	–	go	to	Table	3	
Table 3: Calculation sheet for the start of the Second Innings 
Maximum overs to be bowled: 
(If	first	innings	was	terminated,	S	from	Table	2)	 ___________	(A)	
Scheduled	length	of	innings:	[A	x	4.25]	(round	up	fractions)	 ___________	(B)	
Start time ___________ (C) 
Scheduled	cessation	time	[C	+	B]	 ___________	(D)	
Overs per bowler and fielding restrictions 
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[A/5]	 ___________		overs	
Number of Powerplay overs ___________  overs 10	 The	umpires	shall	stand	at	the	same	end	as	that	in	which	they	finished	the	match. 	
11	 The	team	batting	second	in	the	match	shall	bat	first	in	the	Super	Over.
12	 The	captain	of	the	fielding	team	(or	his	nominee)	shall	select	the	ball	with	
which	the	fielding	team	shall	bowl	its	over	in	the	Super	Over	from	the	box	of	
spare balls provided by the umpires (which shall include the balls used in the 
match,	but	no	new	balls).	The	team	fielding	first	in	the	Super	Over	shall	have	
first	choice	of	ball.	The	team	fielding	second	may	choose	to	use	the	same	
ball	as	chosen	by	the	team	bowling	first.	If	the	ball	needs	to	be	changed,	the	
Playing Conditions shall apply.
13	 The	fielding	side	shall	choose	the	end	from	which	it	is	to	bowl	its	one	over.
14	 Each	team’s	over	is	played	with	the	same	fielding	restrictions	as	apply	  
for the last over in a match played under the ICC Twenty20 International 
Playing Conditions.
15 The winners of the Super Over shall be the team which scored the most runs 
as per normal playing conditions and irrespective of the number of wickets 
lost. (See also Clause 3 above).
TIED SUPER OVER - REPEATING THE SUPER OVER PROCEDURE
16 If the Super Over is tied, then subsequent Super Overs will be played until 
there is a winner.
17 In normal circumstances any subsequent Super Over will start 5 minutes after 
the previous Super Over ends. The interval shall be 5 minutes.
18	 The	team	batting	second	in	the	previous	Super	Over	will	bat	first	in	the	
subsequent Super Over.
19 The balls selected for use by each team in the previous Super Over shall be 
used again by the same team in subsequent Super Overs.
20	 The	fielding	side	must	bowl	its	over	in	a	subsequent	Super	Over	from	the	
opposite end to which it bowled from in the previous Super Over.
21 Any batsman dismissed in any previous Super Over shall be ineligible to bat in 
the following Super Over.
22 The bowler who bowled the over in the previous Super Over shall be ineligible 
to bowl the over in the subsequent Super Over.
23 All other playing conditions will be the same as for the initial Super Over.
24 In circumstances where there are unavoidable time constraints, such as, but 
not limited to, double-header matches which do not allow the completion of 
multiple Super Over(s) the Home Board may, prior to the start of the series 
and	by	notification	to	the	participating	teams,	limit	the	number	of	possible	
Super Overs.APPENDIX F
PROCEDURE FOR THE SUPER OVER
The following procedure shall apply if the playing conditions provide for a Super 
Over to decide the winner of a tied match.
1 If the match is tied a Super Over is played. If the Super Over is a tie, then 
subsequent Super Overs shall be played until there is a winner. Unless 
exceptional circumstances arise, there shall be an unlimited number of  
Super Overs played to achieve a result. (see Clause 24 below).
2 The Super Over involves each team facing one over (unless all out earlier), and  
the winner shall be the team that scores the most runs from its one over innings.
3 The loss of two wickets in the over ends the team’s one over innings.
4 Each team shall be allowed to make one unsuccessful Player Review in each 
innings of the Super Over. This entitlement shall apply irrespective of the 
number of unsuccessful Player Review requests made during the match itself.
5 Subject to weather conditions the Super Over will take place on the 
scheduled day of the match at a time to be determined by the ICC Match 
Referee. In normal circumstances it shall commence 5 minutes after the 
conclusion of the match.
6 The Super Over will be played until completion, but if there are any delays or 
interruptions	during	the	Super	Over,	Extra	Time	(taken	from	the	start	of	the	first 	
Super Over) is allocated to complete the Super Over or any subsequent Super 
Overs. The amount of extra time allocated to the Super Over is the greater of;
 a. the gap between the time at which the match ended and the time the 
original	match	would	have	been	scheduled	to	finish	had	the	entire	extra	
time provision been utilized, or
 b. 20 minutes.
 Should play be delayed prior to or during the Super Over(s) once the  
playing time lost exceeds the Extra Time allocated, the Super Over(s) shall  
be abandoned.
7 The Super Over shall take place on the pitch allocated for the match  
(the designated pitch) unless otherwise determined by the umpires in 
consultation with the Ground Authority and the ICC Match Referee.
8 Only nominated players in the match (including activated concussion 
replacements) may participate in the Super Over. Should any player (including 
the batsmen and bowler) be unable to continue to participate in the Super 
Over due to injury, illness or other wholly acceptable reasons, the relevant 
Playing Conditions as they apply in the match shall also apply in the Super Over.
9 Any penalty time being served in the match shall be carried forward to the 
Super Over.
5.117ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05 05ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS
5.116ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS05
5.118ICC MEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 05
5.119APPENDIX G
USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
The use of electronic communication devices and equipment of any kind to 
communicate	with	players	on	the	field	of	play	shall	not	be	permitted,	except	that 	
broadcaster to player communication shall, with the prior consent of the participating 
countries, be allowed.EXAMPLES - EXTRA TIME AVAILABLE FOR THE SUPER OVER.
Example 1:	The	match	is	scheduled	to	finish	at	10.20pm,	with	60 minutes of extra time 
available to be used. The scheduled cut-off time if all the available extra time is used 
would	be	11.20pm.	The	match	runs	over	time	and	finishes	in	a	tie	at	10.35pm.	The	Super 	
Over is scheduled to start 5 minutes later at 10.40pm. The extra time available to 
complete the Super Over would be 40 minutes (as per Clause 5a above).
• The Super Over starts on time but is interrupted at 10.50pm for 10 minutes 
(leaving 30 minutes of extra time still available).
• Play resumes at 11.00pm with a tied Super Over occurring.
• The second super over is being played but is interrupted at 11.15pm.
• Play does not resume within 30 minutes (being the amount of extra time still 
available), therefore the Super Over process is abandoned, and the match is a tie.
Example 2: The	same	match	is	scheduled	to	finish	at	10.20pm,	but	with	 30 minutes 
of extra time available to be used. The scheduled cut-off time if all the available 
extra	time	is	used	would	be	10.50pm.	The	match	runs	over	time	and	finishes	in	a	
tie at 10.35pm. The Super Over is scheduled to start 5 minutes later at 10.40pm. 
The extra time available to complete the Super Over would be 20 minutes (as per 
Clause 5b above).
 8.1CONTENTS
1 THE PLAYERS 8.3
2 THE UMPIRES 8.6
3 THE SCORERS 8.11
4 THE BALL 8.12
5 THE BAT 8.12
6 THE PITCH 8.14
7 THE CREASES 8.16
8 THE WICKETS 8.17
9 PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PLAYING AREA 8.18
10 COVERING THE PITCH 8.20
11 INTERVALS 8.20
12 START OF PLAY; CESSATION OF PLAY 8.21
13 INNINGS 8.23
14 THE FOLLOW-ON 8.27
15 DECLARATION AND FORFEITURE 8.27
16 THE RESULT 8.27
17 THE OVER 8.31
18 SCORING RUNS 8.33
19 BOUNDARIES 8.36
20 DEAD BALL 8.38
21 NO BALL 8.41
22 WIDE BALL 8.44
23 BYE AND LEG BYE 8.46
24 FIELDER’S ABSENCE; SUBSTITUTES 8.47
25 BATTER’S INNINGS 8.49
26 PRACTICE ON THE FIELD 8.50
27 THE WICKET-KEEPER 8.51
28 THE FIELDER 8.53
29 THE WICKET IS DOWN 8.58
30 BATTER OUT OF HER GROUND 8.59
31 APPEALS 8.60
32 BOWLED 8.61
33 CAUGHT 8.62
34 HIT THE BALL TWICE 8.63
35 HIT WICKET 8.64
36 LEG BEFORE WICKET 8.64
37 OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD 8.65ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
Effective from 1 September 201908
ICC WOMEN’S  
CHAMPIONSHIP  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS08
8.2
PREAMBLE
THE SPIRIT OF CRICKET
Cricket owes much of its appeal and enjoyment to the fact that it should be played 
not only according to the Laws (which are incorporated within these Playing 
Conditions), but also within the Spirit of Cricket. 
The major responsibility for ensuring fair play rests with the captains, but extends to 
all players, umpires and, especially in junior cricket, teachers, coaches and parents.
Respect is central to the Spirit of Cricket.
Respect your captain, team-mates, opponents and the authority of the umpires.
Play hard and play fair.
Accept the umpire’s decision.
Create a positive atmosphere by your own conduct, and encourage others to  
do likewise.
Show self-discipline, even when things go against you.
Congratulate the opposition on their successes, and enjoy those of your own team.
Thank	the	officials	and	your	opposition	at	the	end	of	the	match,	whatever	the	result.
Cricket is an exciting game that encourages leadership, friendship and teamwork, 
which brings together people from different nationalities, cultures and religions, 
especially when played within the Spirit of Cricket.
 1 THE PLAYERS
 1.1 Number of players
  A match is played between two sides, each of eleven players, one of 
whom shall be captain.
 1.2 Nomination and replacement of players
 1.2.1 Each captain shall nominate 11 players plus a maximum of 4 
substitute	fielders	in	writing	to	the	ICC	Match	Referee	before	the 	
toss. Other than set out in clause 1.2.7, no player (member of the 
playing eleven) may be changed after the nomination without  
the consent of the opposing captain.
	 1.2.2	 Only	those	nominated	as	substitute	fielders	shall	be	entitled	to 	
act	as	substitute	fielders	during	the	match,	unless	the	ICC	Match 	
Referee, in exceptional circumstances, allows subsequent additions.
 1.2.3 All those nominated including those nominated as substitute 
fielders,	as	well	as	any	Concussion	Replacements,	must	be	eligible	to 	
play for that particular team and by such nomination the nominees 
shall warrant that they are so eligible.
 1.2.4 In addition, by their nomination, the nominees shall be deemed 
to have agreed to abide by all the applicable ICC Regulations 
pertaining to international cricket and in particular, the Clothing 
and Equipment Regulations, the Code of Conduct for Players and 
Player Support Personnel (hereafter referred to as the ICC Code 
of Conduct), the Anti-Racism Code for Players and Player Support 
Personnel, the Anti-Doping Code and the Anti-Corruption Code.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08
8.338 RUN OUT 8.67
39 STUMPED 8.68
40 TIMED OUT 8.68
41 UNFAIR PLAY 8.69
42 PLAYERS’ CONDUCT 8.81
APPENDIX A DEFINITIONS 8.85
1 The match 8.85
2 Implements and equipment 8.85
3 The playing area 8.86
4 Positioning 8.86
5 Umpires and decision-making 8.87
6 Batters 8.89
7 Fielders 8.89
8 Substitutes and Concussion Replacements 8.89
9 Bowlers 8.90
10 The ball 8.90
11 Runs 8.91
12 The person 8.91
13 Off side/on side; in front of/behind the popping crease. 8.92
APPENDIX B EQUIPMENT 8.93
1 The Bat 8.93
2 The wickets 8.96
3 Wicket-keeping gloves 8.97
APPENDIX C THE VENUE 8.98
1 The pitch and the creases 8.99
2	 Restriction	on	the	placement	of	fielders	 8.99
3 Advertising on grounds, perimeter boards and sight-screens 8.100
4	 Markings	on	outfield	 8.100
APPENDIX D DECISION REVIEW SYSTEM (DRS)  
AND THIRD UMPIRE PROTOCOL 8.101
1 General 8.101
2 Umpire Review 8.103
3 Player Review 8.106
4 Interpretation of Playing Conditions 8.115
APPENDIX E CALCULATIONS 8.116
APPENDIX F USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT 8.119ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.4 8.5 1.2.7.4  The Concussion Replacement Request must be submitted 
as	soon	as	possible	after	the	incident	specified	in	1.2.7.3.2	if 	
a Concussion Replacement is to be permitted.
 1.2.8 The ICC Match Referee should ordinarily approve a Concussion 
Replacement Request if the replacement is a like-for-like player 
whose inclusion will not excessively advantage her team for the 
remainder of the match.
 1.2.8.1  In assessing whether the nominated Concussion 
Replacement should be considered a like-for-like player, 
the ICC Match Referee should consider the likely role 
the concussed player would have played during the 
remainder of the match, and the normal role that would 
be performed by the nominated Concussion Replacement.
 1.2.8.2 If the ICC Match Referee believes that the inclusion 
of the nominated Concussion Replacement, when 
performing their normal role, would excessively 
advantage their team, the Match Referee may impose 
such conditions upon the identity and involvement of 
the	Concussion	Replacement	as	he/she	sees	fit,	in	line	
with the overriding objective of facilitating a like-for-like 
replacement for the concussed player.
 1.2.8.3 The ICC Match Referee may, in reviewing a Concussion 
Replacement Request made in accordance with clause 
1.2.7.3, request any such further information as may be 
required in order to make the determination required 
under clauses 1.2.8.1 and 1.2.8.2.
 1.2.9 The decision of the ICC Match Referee in relation to any 
Concussion	Replacement	Request	shall	be	final	and	neither	team	
shall have any right of appeal.
 1.2.10 Once the Concussion Replacement has been approved by the ICC 
Match Referee, the replaced player shall play no further part in 
the match.
 1.2.11 Both the Concussion Replacement and the replaced player 
shall be considered to have played in the match for records and 
statistical purposes.
 1.3 Captain
 1.3.1 If at any time the captain is not available, a deputy shall act for her.
 1.3.2 If a captain is not available to nominate the players, then any 
person associated with that team may act as her deputy to do so. 
See clause 1.2.
 1.3.3 At any time after the nomination of the players, only a 
nominated player can act as deputy in discharging the duties 
and responsibilities of the captain as stated in these Playing 
Conditions, including at the toss. See clause 13.4 (The toss).
 1.4 Responsibility of captains
  The captains are responsible at all times for ensuring that play is conducted 
within The Spirit of Cricket as well as within these Playing Conditions. 1.2.5 A player or player support personnel who has been suspended 
from participating in a match shall not, from the toss of the coin 
and for the remainder of the match thereafter:
 1.2.5.1 Be nominated as, or carry out any of the duties or 
responsibilities	of	a	substitute	fielder,	or
 1.2.5.2 Enter any part of the playing area (which shall include 
the	field	of	play	and	the	area	between	the	boundary	
and the perimeter boards) at any time, including any 
scheduled or unscheduled breaks in play.
  A player who has been suspended from participating in 
a match shall be permitted from the toss of the coin and 
for the remainder of the match thereafter be permitted 
to enter the players’ dressing room provided that the 
players’ dressing room (or any part thereof) for the 
match is not within the playing area described in clause 
1.2.5.2 above (for example, the player is not permitted to 
enter	the	on-field	‘dug-out’).
 1.2.6 A player who has been suspended from participating in a 
match shall be permitted from the toss of the coin and for the 
remainder of the match thereafter be permitted to enter the 
players’ dressing room provided that the players’ dressing room 
(or any part thereof) for the match is not within the playing area 
described in clause 1.2.5.2 above (for example, the player is not 
permitted	to	enter	the	on-field	‘dug-out’).	
 1.2.7 If a player sustains a concussion or suspected concussion as a 
result of a head or neck injury during the course of the relevant 
match, a Concussion Replacement may be permitted in the 
following circumstances:
 1.2.7.1 the head or neck injury must have been sustained during 
play and within the playing area described in clause 
1.2.5.2 above;
 1.2.7.2 a concussion or suspected concussion must have been 
formally diagnosed by the Team Medical Representative 
or in consultation with the Match Day Doctor;
 1.2.7.3 the Team Medical Representative or Team Manager shall 
submit a Concussion Replacement Request to the ICC 
Match Referee on a standard form, which shall:
 1.2.7.3.1 identify the player who has sustained the 
concussion or suspected concussion; 
 1.2.7.3.2 specify the incident in which the concussion or 
suspected concussion was sustained, including 
the time at which it occurred;
	 1.2.7.3.3	 confirm	that,	following	an	examination,	the	Team 	
Medical Representative, or in consultation with 
the Match Day Doctor, believes or suspects that 
the player has sustained a concussion as a result 
of	the	incident	specified	in	1.2.7.3.2	above;	and 	
 1.2.7.3.4 identify the requested Concussion 
Replacement, who shall be a like-for-like 
replacement for the player who has sustained 
the concussion or suspected concussion.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.6 8.7 2.3 Consultation with Home Board
  Before the match the umpires shall consult with the Home Board  
to determine;
 2.3.1 the balls to be used during the match. See clause 4 (The ball).
 2.3.2 the hours of play and the times and durations of any agreed 
intervals. 
 2.3.3 which clock or watch and back-up time piece is to be used during 
the match.
	 2.3.4	 the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play.	See	clause	19	(Boundaries).
 2.3.5 the use of covers. See clause 10 (Covering the pitch).
 2.3.6 any special conditions of play affecting the conduct of the match.
 and inform the scorers of agreements in 2.3.2, 2.3.3, 2.3.4 and 2.3.6.
 2.4 The wickets, creases and boundaries
  Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy 
themselves that
 2.4.1 the wickets are properly pitched. See clause 8 (The wickets).
 2.4.2 the creases are correctly marked. See clause 7 (The creases).
	 2.4.3	 the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play	complies	with	the	requirements	
of	clauses	19.1	(Determining	the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play),	  
19.2 (Identifying and marking the boundary) and 19.3 (Restoring 
the boundary).
 2.5 Conduct of the match, implements and equipment
  Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy 
themselves that
 2.5.1 the conduct of the match is strictly in accordance with these 
Playing Conditions.
 2.5.2 the implements used in the match conform to the following:
 2.5.2.1 clause 4 (The ball).
 2.5.2.2 externally visible requirements of clause 5 (The bat) and 
paragraph 1 of Appendix B.
 2.5.2.3 either clauses 8.2 (Size of stumps) and 8.3 (The bails).
 2.5.3 no player uses equipment other than that permitted. See 
paragraph 2 of Appendix A. Note particularly therein the 
interpretation	of	‘protective	helmet’.
 2.5.4 the wicket-keeper’s gloves comply with the requirements of 
clause 27.2 (Gloves).
 2.6 Fair and unfair play
  The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play.
  2 THE UMPIRES
 2.1 Appointment and attendance
  The following rules for the selection and appointment of umpires shall 
be followed as far as it is practicable to do so:
 2.1.1 The umpires shall control the game as required by these Playing 
Conditions, with absolute impartiality and shall be present at the 
ground at least 90 minutes before the scheduled start of play.
 2.1.2 The Home Board shall appoint all umpires to stand in each match. 
For non-televised matches the Home Board shall appoint two 
on-field	umpires	and	a	reserve	umpire.	The	responsibility	of	the	
reserve	umpire	will	be	to	act	as	an	emergency	on-field	umpire	and	
carry out tasks as prescribed for the third and fourth umpires. For 
all	televised	matches,	the	Home	Board	shall	appoint	two	on-field	
umpires, a third umpire and a reserve (fourth) umpire. 
 2.1.3 It’s recommended that such umpires shall only be selected from 
its	umpires	on	the	‘Elite	Panel’,	‘International	Panel’,	‘First	Class	
Panel’	or	female	umpires	on	the	‘ICC	Development	Panel’.	
 2.1.4 As early as possible before each match, the Home Board will 
advise the ICC of the names of its appointees and will advise the 
Manager of the visiting team of all umpires’ names.
 2.1.5 It’s recommended that in matches the Home Board shall appoint 
match	officials	in	the	following	manner:
	 2.1.5.1	 For	all	matches,	only	‘Elite	Panel’,	‘International	Panel’,	
‘First	Class	Panel’	or	female	umpires	on	the	‘ICC	
Development	Panel’	shall	be	appointed	as	the	on-field	
umpires or reserve umpire. 
	 2.1.5.2	 For	televised	matches	where	DRS	is	not	used,	only	‘Elite	
Panel’,	‘International	Panel’	or	‘First	Class	Panel’	umpires	
shall be appointed as the third umpire. The third umpire 
shall	act	as	the	emergency	umpire	and	officiate	with	
regards to TV replays. The fourth umpire shall act as the 
emergency third umpire. 
	 2.1.5.3	 For	televised	matches	where	DRS	is	used,	only	‘Elite	
Panel’	or	‘International	Panel’	umpires	shall	be	appointed	
to	third	umpire	who	shall	officiate	in	regard	to	the	DRS.	
The reserve (fourth) umpire shall act as the emergency 
on-field	umpire	(not	the	third	umpire).
 2.1.5.4 The playing conditions governing the use of the DRS and 
the third umpire are included in Appendix D.
 2.1.6 The Home Board shall appoint a local match referee for all matches 
(ICC Match Referee) from the International Panel of Referees.
 2.1.7 Neither team will have a right of objection to the appointment of 
any umpire or ICC Match Referee.
 2.2 Change of umpire
  An umpire shall not be changed during the match, other than in 
exceptional circumstances, unless he/she is injured or ill.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.8 8.9 2.8.5.3 Light meter readings may accordingly be used by  
the umpires:
 2.8.5.3.1 To determine whether there has been at any 
stage a deterioration or improvement in the light.
 2.8.5.3.2 As benchmarks for the remainder of a match.
	 2.8.6	 Use	of	artificial	lights
  If in the opinion of the umpires, natural light is deteriorating to an 
unfit	level,	they	shall	authorize	the	Ground	Authority	to	use	the	
available	artificial	lighting	so	that	the	match	can	commence	or	
continue in acceptable conditions.
  In the event of power failure or lights malfunction, the provisions 
relating to the delay or interruption of play due to bad weather 
or light shall apply.
 2.8.7 When there is a suspension of play it is the responsibility of the 
umpires to monitor conditions. They shall make inspections as 
often	as	appropriate,	unaccompanied	by	any	players	or	officials.	
Immediately the umpires together agree that the conditions are 
no longer dangerous or unreasonable they shall call upon the 
players to resume play.
 2.8.8 The safety of all persons within the ground is of paramount 
importance to the ICC. In the event that of any threatening 
circumstance, whether actual or perceived (including for example 
weather, pitch invasions, act of God, etc.), then the umpires, on 
the advice of the ICC Match Referee, should suspend play and all 
players	and	officials	should	immediately	be	asked	to	leave	the	field 	
of play in a safe and orderly manner and to relocate to a secure 
and safe area (depending on each particular threat) pending the 
satisfactory passing or resolution of such threat or risk to the 
reasonable satisfaction of the umpires, the ICC Match Referee, the 
head of the relevant Ground Authority, the head of ground security 
and/or the police as the circumstances may require.
 2.8.9 Where play is suspended under clause 2.8.8 above the decision 
to abandon or resume play shall be the responsibility of the ICC 
Match Referee who shall act only after consultation with the 
head of ground security and the police.
 2.9 Position of umpires
  The umpires shall stand where they can best see any act upon which 
their decision may be required.
  Subject to this over-riding consideration, the bowler’s end umpire shall 
stand in a position so as not to interfere with either the bowler’s run-up 
or the striker’s view.
  The striker’s end umpire may elect to stand on the off side instead of the 
on	side	of	the	pitch,	provided	he/she	informs	the	captain	of	the	fielding	
side, the striker and the other umpire.
 2.10 Umpires changing ends
  Shall not apply. 2.7 Fitness for play
 2.7.1 It is solely for the umpires together to decide whether 
either conditions of ground, weather or light or exceptional 
circumstances mean that it would be dangerous or unreasonable 
for play to take place.
  Conditions shall not be regarded as either dangerous or 
unreasonable merely because they are not ideal.
  The fact that the grass and the ball are wet does not warrant the 
ground conditions being regarded as unreasonable or dangerous.
 2.7.2 Conditions shall be regarded as dangerous if there is actual and 
foreseeable risk to the safety of any player or umpire.
 2.7.3 Conditions shall be regarded as unreasonable if, although posing 
no risk to safety, it would not be sensible for play to proceed.
 2.7.4 If the umpires consider the ground is so wet or slippery as to 
deprive	the	bowler	of	a	reasonable	foothold,	the	fielders	of	the	
power of free movement, or the batters of the ability to play their 
strokes or to run between the wickets, then these conditions 
shall be regarded as so bad that it would be dangerous and 
unreasonable for play to take place.
 2.8 Suspension of play in dangerous or unreasonable circumstances
 2.8.1 All references to ground include the pitch. See clause 6.1  
(Area of pitch).
 2.8.2 If at any time the umpires together agree that the conditions 
of ground, weather or light, or any other circumstances are 
dangerous or unreasonable, they shall immediately suspend play, 
or not allow play to start or to recommence. The decision as to 
whether conditions are so bad as to warrant such action is one 
for the umpires alone to make, following consultation with the 
ICC Match Referee.
 2.8.3 If circumstances are warranted, the umpires shall stop play and 
instruct the Ground Authority to take whatever action they can 
and use whatever equipment is necessary to remove as much 
dew	as	possible	from	the	outfield	when	conditions	become	
unreasonable or dangerous. The umpires may also instruct 
the ground staff to take such action during scheduled and 
unscheduled breaks in play.
 2.8.4 The umpires shall disregard any shadow on the pitch from the 
stadium or from any permanent object on the ground.
 2.8.5 Light Meters
  It is the responsibility of each Home Board to supply light  
meters	to	the	match	officials	to	be	used	in	accordance	with	  
these playing conditions.
 2.8.5.1 All light meters shall be uniformly calibrated.
 2.8.5.2 The umpires shall be entitled to use light meter readings as 
a	guideline	for	determining	whether	the	light	is	fit	for	play 	
in accordance with the criteria set out in clause 2.8.2 above.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.10 8.11  The following signal is for Level 4 player conduct 
offences. The signal has two parts, both of which should 
be acknowledged separately by the scorers.
  Level 4 conduct
	 	 Part	1	–	by	putting	one	arm	out	to	the	side	of	the	body	
and repeatedly raising it and lowering it.
	 	 Part	2	–	by	raising	an	index	finger,	held	at	shoulder	
height, to the side of the body.
 2.13.1.4 All the signals in clause 2.13.1.3 are to be made by the 
bowler’s end umpire except that for Short run, which 
is to be signalled by the umpire at the end where short 
running occurs. However, the bowler’s end umpire 
shall	be	responsible	both	for	the	final	signal	of	Short	
run to the scorers and, if more than one run is short, for 
informing them as to the number of runs to be recorded.
 2.13.2 The umpire shall wait until each signal to the scorers has  
been separately acknowledged by a scorer before allowing  
play to proceed.
  If several signals are to be used, they should be given in the order 
that the events occurred.
 2.14 Informing the umpires
  Wherever the umpires are to receive information from captains or other 
players	under	these	Playing	Conditions,	it	will	be	sufficient	for	one	
umpire to be so informed and for him/her to inform the other umpire.
 2.15 Correctness of scores
  Consultation between umpires and scorers on doubtful points is 
essential. The umpires shall, throughout the match, satisfy themselves as 
to the correctness of the number of runs scored, the wickets that have 
fallen and, where appropriate, the number of overs bowled.
  The umpires shall ensure that they are able to contact the scorers at 
any time during the match and at its conclusion to address any issues 
relating to the correctness of scores.
 3 THE SCORERS
 3.1 Appointment of scorers
  Two scorers shall be appointed to record all runs scored, all wickets 
taken and, where appropriate, number of overs bowled.
 3.2 Correctness of scores
  The scorers shall frequently check to ensure that their records agree and 
consult with the umpires if necessary. See clause 2.15 (Correctness of 
scores).
 3.3 Acknowledging signals
  The scorers shall accept all instructions and signals given to them by the 
umpires and shall immediately acknowledge each separate signal. 2.11 Disagreement and dispute
  Where there is disagreement or dispute about any matter, the umpires 
together	shall	make	the	final	decision.	See	also	clause	31.6	(Consultation	
by umpires).
 2.12 Umpire’s decision
  An umpire may alter any decision provided that such alteration is made 
promptly.	This	apart,	an	umpire’s	decision,	once	made,	is	final.
 2.13 Signals
 2.13.1 The following code of signals shall be used by umpires.
 2.13.1.1 Signals made while the ball is in play
	 	 No	ball	–	by	extending	one	arm	horizontally.
	 	 Out	–	by	raising	an	index	finger	above	the	head.	 
(If not out, the umpire shall call Not out.)
	 	 Wide	–	by	extending	both	arms	horizontally.
	 	 Dead	ball	–	by	crossing	and	re-crossing	the	wrists	below	
the waist.
 2.13.1.2 When the ball is dead, the bowler’s end umpire shall 
repeat the signals in clause 2.13.1.1, with the exception of 
the signal for Out, to the scorers.
 2.13.1.3 The signals listed below shall be made to the scorers only 
when the ball is dead.
	 	 Boundary	4	–	by	waving	an	arm	from	side	to	side	finishing	
with the arm across the chest.
	 	 Boundary	6	–	by	raising	both	arms	above	the	head.
	 	 Bye	–	by	raising	an	open	hand	above	the	head.
	 	 Five	Penalty	runs	awarded	to	the	batting	side	–	by	
repeated tapping of one shoulder with the opposite hand.
	 	 Five	Penalty	runs	awarded	to	the	fielding	side	–	by	
placing one hand on the opposite shoulder.
	 	 Leg	bye	–	by	touching	a	raised	knee	with	the	hand.
	 	 Revoke	last	signal	–	by	touching	both	shoulders,	each	
with the opposite hand.
	 	 Short	run	–	by	bending	one	arm	upwards	and	touching	
the	nearer	shoulder	with	the	tips	of	the	fingers.
	 	 Free	Hit	–	after	signaling	the	No	ball,	the	bowler’s	end	
umpire extends one arm straight upwards and moves it in 
a circular motion.
	 	 Powerplay	Over	–	by	rotating	his/her	arm	in	a	large	circle.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.12 8.13 5.2 The handle
 5.2.1 The handle is to be made principally of cane and/or wood.
	 5.2.2	 The	part	of	the	handle	that	is	wholly	outside	the	blade	is	defined	
to be the upper portion of the handle. It is a straight shaft for 
holding the bat.
 5.2.3 The upper portion of the handle may be covered with a grip as 
defined	in	paragraph	1.2.2	of	Appendix	B.
 5.3 The blade
 5.3.1 The blade comprises the whole of the bat apart from the handle 
as	defined	in	clause	5.2	and	in	paragraph	1.3	of	Appendix	B.
 5.3.2 The blade shall consist solely of wood.
 5.4 Protection and repair
	 	 Subject	to	the	specifications	in	paragraph	1.4	of	Appendix	B.	and	
providing clause 5.5 is not contravened,
 5.4.1 solely for the purposes of
  either
  protection from surface damage to the face, sides and shoulders 
of the blade
  or
  repair to the blade after surface damage,
  material that is not rigid, either at the time of its application to 
the blade or subsequently, may be placed on these surfaces.
 5.4.2 for repair of the blade after damage other than surface damage
 5.4.2.1 solid material may be inserted into the blade.
 5.4.2.2 The only material permitted for any insertion is wood 
with minimal essential adhesives.
 5.4.3 to prevent damage to the toe, material may be placed on that 
part of the blade but shall not extend over any part of the face, 
back or sides of the blade.
 5.5 Damage to the ball
 5.5.1 For any part of the bat, covered or uncovered, the hardness 
of the constituent materials and the surface texture thereof 
shall not be such that either or both could cause unacceptable 
damage to the ball.
 5.5.2 Any material placed on any part of the bat, for whatever purpose, 
shall similarly not be such that it could cause unacceptable 
damage to the ball.
 5.5.3 For the purpose of this clause, unacceptable damage is any 
change that is greater than normal wear and tear caused by the 
ball striking the uncovered wooden surface of the blade. 4 THE BALL
 4.1 Weight and size
  The ball, when new, shall weigh not less than 4.94 ounces/140 g, nor 
more than 5.31 ounces/151 g, and shall measure not less than 8.25 in/21.0 
cm, nor more than 8.88 in/22.5 cm in circumference.
 4.2 Approval and control of balls
 4.2.1 The Home Board shall provide the best available high quality 
white	cricket	balls	(e.g.	Kookaburra	‘Turf’	or	its	equivalent)	and	
spare used balls for changing during a match, which shall also be 
of the same brand. Note: The Home Board shall be required to 
advise the Visiting Board of the brand of ball to be used in the 
match(es) at least 30 days prior to the start of the match(es).
	 4.2.2	 The	fielding	captain	or	her	nominee	may	select	the	ball(s)	with	which 	
she wishes to bowl from the supply provided by the Home Board. 
The reserve umpire shall take a box containing at least 6 new balls to 
the dressing room and supervise the selection of the ball(s).
 4.2.3 The umpires shall retain possession of the match ball(s) 
throughout the duration of the match when play is not actually 
taking place.
 4.2.4 During play umpires shall periodically and irregularly inspect the 
condition of the ball and shall retain possession of it at the fall of 
a wicket, a drinks interval, or any other disruption in play.
 4.3 New ball
	 4.3.1	 Each	fielding	team	shall	have	two	new	balls	for	its	innings,	to	be	
used in alternate overs i.e. one from each end.
	 4.3.2	 In	a	match	reduced	to	25	overs	or	less	per	side	before	the	first	
innings commences, each team shall have only one new ball for 
its Innings.
	 4.4	 Ball	lost	or	becoming	unfit	for	play
  If, during play, the ball cannot be found or recovered or the umpires 
agree	that	it	has	become	unfit	for	play	through	normal	use,	the	
umpires shall replace it with a ball which has had wear comparable 
with that which the previous ball had received before the need for its 
replacement. When the ball is replaced, the umpire shall inform the 
batters	and	the	fielding	captain.
 5 THE BAT
 5.1 The bat
 5.1.1 The bat consists of two parts, a handle and a blade.
 5.1.2 The basic requirements and measurements of the bat are set 
out	in	this	clause	with	detailed	specifications	in	paragraph	1	of	
Appendix B.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.14 8.15 6.2 Fitness of pitch for play
	 	 The	umpires	shall	be	the	sole	judges	of	the	fitness	of	the	pitch	for	
play. See clauses 2.7 (Fitness for play) and 2.8 (Suspension of play in 
dangerous or unreasonable conditions).
 6.3 Selection and preparation
  Before the match, the Ground Authority shall be responsible for the 
selection and preparation of the pitch. During the match, the umpires 
shall control its use and maintenance.
 6.3.1 The Ground Authority shall ensure that during the period prior 
to the start of play and during intervals, the pitch area shall be 
roped off so as to prevent unauthorised access. (The pitch area 
shall include an area at least 2 metres beyond the rectangle made 
by the crease markings at both ends of the pitch).
 6.3.2 The reserve umpire shall ensure that, prior to the start of play and 
during	any	intervals,	only	authorised	staff,	the	match	officials,	
players, team coaches and authorised television personnel shall 
be allowed access to the pitch area. Such access shall be subject 
to the following limitations:
 6.3.2.1 Only captains and team coaches may walk on the  
actual playing surface of the pitch area (outside of  
the crease markings).
 6.3.2.2 Access to the pitch area by television personnel shall 
be restricted to one camera crew (including one or 
two	television	commentators)	of	the	official	licensed	
television broadcaster(s) (but not news crews).
 6.3.2.3 No spiked footwear shall be permitted.
 6.3.2.4 No one shall be permitted to bounce a ball on the pitch, 
strike it with a bat or cause damage to the pitch in any 
other way.
 6.3.2.5 Access shall not interfere with pitch preparation.
 6.3.3 In the event of any dispute, the ICC Match Referee will rule and 
his/her	ruling	will	be	final.
 6.4 Changing the pitch
	 6.4.1	 If	the	on-field	umpires	decide	that	it	is	dangerous	or	unreasonable 	
for play to continue on the match pitch, they shall stop play and 
immediately advise the ICC Match Referee.
	 6.4.2	 The	on-field	umpires	and	the	ICC	Match	Referee	shall	then	
consult with both captains.
 6.4.3 If the captains agree to continue, play shall resume.
	 6.4.4	 If	the	decision	is	not	to	resume	play,	the	on-field	umpires	
together with the ICC Match Referee shall consider whether the 
existing pitch can be repaired and the match resumed from the 
point it was stopped. In considering whether to authorise such 
repairs, the ICC Match Referee must consider whether this would 
place either side at an unfair advantage, given the play that had 
already taken place on the dangerous pitch. 5.6 Contact with the ball
  In these clauses,
 5.6.1 reference to the bat shall imply that the bat is held in the batter’s 
hand or a glove worn on her hand, unless stated otherwise.
 5.6.2 contact between the ball and any of 5.6.2.1 to 5.6.2.4
 5.6.2.1 the bat itself
 5.6.2.2 the batter’s hand holding the bat
 5.6.2.3 any part of a glove worn on the batter’s hand holding  
the bat
 5.6.2.4 any additional materials permitted under 5.4
  shall be regarded as the ball striking or touching the bat 
or being struck by the bat.
 5.7 Bat size limits
 5.7.1 The overall length of the bat, when the lower portion of the 
handle is inserted, shall not be more than 38 in/96.52 cm.
 5.7.2 The blade of the bat shall not exceed the following dimensions:
  Width: 4.25 in/10.8 cm
  Depth: 2.64 in/6.7 cm
  Edges: 1.56 in/4.0 cm
  Furthermore, it should also be able to pass through a bat gauge 
as described in paragraph 1.6 of Appendix B.
 5.7.3 The handle shall not exceed 52% of the overall length of the bat.
 5.7.4 The material permitted for covering the blade in clause 5.4.1 shall 
not exceed 0.04 in/0.1 cm in thickness.
 5.7.5 The maximum permitted thickness of protective material placed 
on the toe of the blade is 0.12 in/0.3 cm.
 5.8 Categories of bat
 5.8.1 Type A bats conform to clauses 5.1 to 5.7 inclusive.
 5.8.2 Only Type A bats may be used in ODI matches.
 6 THE PITCH
 6.1 Area of pitch
  The pitch is a rectangular area of the ground 22 yards/20.12 m in length 
and 10 ft/3.05 m in width. It is bounded at either end by the bowling 
creases and on either side by imaginary lines, one each side of the 
imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps, each parallel 
to	it	and	5	ft/1.52	m	from	it.	If	the	pitch	is	next	to	an	artificial	pitch	which 	
is closer than 5 ft/1.52 m from the middle stumps, the pitch on that side 
will extend only to the junction of the two surfaces. See clauses 8.1 
(Description, width and pitching) and 7.2 (The bowling crease).ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.16 8.17 7.3 The popping crease
  The popping crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, shall 
be in front of and parallel to the bowling crease and shall be 4 ft/1.22 m 
from it. The popping crease shall be marked to a minimum of 15 yards/13.71 
m on either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two 
middle stumps and shall be considered to be unlimited in length.
 7.4 The return creases
  The return creases, which are the inside edges of the crease markings, 
shall be at right angles to the popping crease at a distance of 4 ft 4 
in/1.32 m either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two 
middle stumps. Each return crease shall be marked from the popping 
crease to a minimum of 8 ft/2.44 m behind it and shall be considered to 
be unlimited in length.
 7.5 Additional Crease Markings
  As a guideline to the umpires for the calling of Wides on the offside, the 
crease markings detailed in paragraph 1 of Appendix C may be marked in 
white at each end of the pitch.
 8 THE WICKETS
 8.1 Description, width and pitching
  Two sets of wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other 
in the centres of the bowling creases. Each set shall be 9 in/22.86 cm 
wide and shall consist of three wooden stumps with two wooden bails 
on top. See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
 8.2 Size of stumps
  The tops of the stumps shall be 28 in/71.12 cm above the playing surface 
and shall be dome shaped except for the bail grooves. The portion of 
a stump above the playing surface shall be cylindrical apart from the 
domed top, with circular section of diameter not less than 1.38 in/3.50 
cm nor more than 1.5 in/3.81 cm. See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
  For televised matches, the Home Board may provide a slightly larger 
cylindrical stump to accommodate the stump camera. When the larger 
stump is used, all three stumps must be exactly the same size.
 8.3 The bails
 8.3.1 The bails, when in position on top of the stumps,
	 –		shall	not	project	more	than	0.5	in/1.27	cm	above	them.
	 –		shall	fit	between	the	stumps	without	forcing	them	out	of	 
the vertical.
	 8.3.2	 Each	bail	shall	conform	to	the	following	specifications.	See	
paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
  Overall length 4.31 in/10.95 cm
  Length of barrel 2.13 in /5.40 cm
  Longer spigot 1.38 in/3.50 cm
  Shorter spigot 0.81 in/2.06 cm. 6.4.5 If the decision is that the existing pitch cannot be repaired, then 
the match is to be abandoned with the following consequences: 
 6.4.5.1 In the event of the required number of overs to 
constitute a match having been completed at the time 
the match is abandoned, the result shall be determined 
according to the provisions of clause 16.4.2.
 6.4.5.2 In the event of the required number of overs to 
constitute a match not having been completed, the 
match will be abandoned as a no result.
 6.4.6 If the abandonment occurs on the day of the match, the ICC 
Match Referee shall consult with the Home Board with the 
objective	of	finding	a	way	for	a	new	match	(including	a	new	
nomination of teams and toss) to commence on the same date 
and venue. Such a match may be played either on the repaired 
pitch or on another pitch, subject to the ICC Match Referee and 
the	relevant	Ground	Authority	both	being	satisfied	that	the	new	
pitch will be of the required ODI standard. The playing time lost 
between the scheduled start time of the original match and 
the actual start time of the new match will be covered by the 
provisions of clause 12.
 6.4.7 If it is not possible to start a new match on the scheduled day of 
the	match,	the	relevant	officials	from	the	participating	Boards	
shall agree on whether the match can be replayed within the 
existing tour schedule.
 6.4.8 Throughout the above decision making processes, the ICC Match 
Referee shall keep informed both captains and the head of the 
Ground Authority. The head of the Ground Authority shall ensure 
that suitable and prompt public announcements are made.
 6.5 Non-turf pitches
 6.5.1  ODI matches shall be played on natural turf pitches. 
  Note: Home Boards may, prior to the commencement of the series,  
seek the approval of ICC to use a hybrid pitch as an alternate to a 
natural turf pitch.
 6.5.2  The use of PVA and other adhesives in the preparation of pitches 
is not permitted.
 7 THE CREASES
 7.1 The creases
  The positions of a bowling crease, a popping crease and two return 
creases shall be marked by white lines, as set out in clauses 7.2, 7.3 and 
7.4, at each end of the pitch. See paragraph 1 of Appendix C.
 7.2 The bowling crease
  The bowling crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, is  
the line that marks the end of the pitch, as in clause 6.1 (Area of pitch).  
It shall be 8 ft 8 in/2.64 m in length.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.18 8.19 9.2 Clearing debris from the pitch
 9.2.1 The pitch shall be cleared of any debris
 9.2.1.1 between innings. This shall precede rolling if any is to 
take place.
 9.2.1.2 at all intervals for meals.
 9.2.2 The clearance of debris in clause 9.2.1 shall be done by sweeping, 
except where the umpires consider that this may be detrimental 
to the surface of the pitch. In this case the debris must be cleared 
from that area by hand, without sweeping.
 9.2.3 In addition to 9.2.1, debris may be cleared from the pitch by hand, 
without sweeping, before mowing and whenever either umpire 
considers it necessary.
 9.3 Mowing
 9.3.1 Responsibility for mowing
 9.3.1.1 All mowings which are carried out before the match shall 
be the sole responsibility of the Ground Authority.
 9.4 Watering the pitch
  The pitch shall not be watered during the match.
 9.5 Re-marking creases
  Creases shall be re-marked whenever either umpire considers it necessary.
 9.6 Maintenance of footholes
  The umpires shall ensure that the holes made by the bowlers and 
batters are cleaned out and dried whenever necessary to facilitate play.
	 	 The	umpires	shall	allow,	if	necessary,	the	returfing	of	footholes	made	by	
the	bowlers	in	their	delivery	strides,	or	the	use	of	quick-setting	fillings	
for the same purpose.
  In addition, the umpires shall see that wherever possible and whenever 
it is considered necessary, action is taken during all intervals in play to 
do whatever is practicable to improve the bowler’s footholes. 
 9.7 Securing of footholds and maintenance of pitch
  During play, umpires shall allow the players to secure their footholds by 
the use of sawdust provided that no damage to the pitch is caused and 
that clause 41 (Unfair play) is not contravened.
 9.8 Protection and preparation of adjacent pitches during matches
  The protection (by way of an appropriate cover) and preparation of 
pitches which are adjacent to the match pitch will be permitted during 
the match subject to the following:
 9.8.1 Such measures will only be possible if requested by the Ground 
Authority and approved by the umpires before the start of the match.
 9.8.2 Approval should only be granted where such measures are 
unavoidable and will not compromise the safety of the players or 
their ability to execute their actions with complete freedom. 8.3.3 The two spigots and the barrel shall have the same centre line.
 8.3.4 Devices aimed at protecting player safety by limiting the distance 
that a bail can travel off the stumps will be allowed, subject to 
the approval of the Home Board and the ICC.
 8.4 Dispensing with bails
  The umpires may agree to dispense with the use of bails, if necessary. 
If they so agree then no bails shall be used at either end. The use of 
bails shall be resumed as soon as conditions permit. See clause 29.4 
(Dispensing with bails).
 8.5 LED Wickets
  The use of approved LED Wickets is permitted. Refer also to paragraphs 
3.8.1.6 and 4.2 of Appendix D. 
 9 PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PLAYING AREA
 9.1 Rolling
  The pitch shall not be rolled during the match except as permitted in 
clauses 9.1.1 and 9.1.2.
 9.1.1 Frequency and duration of rolling
  During the match the pitch may be rolled at the request of the 
captain of the side batting second, for a period of not more than 
7 minutes, before the start of the second innings.
 9.1.2 Rolling after a delayed start
  In addition to the rolling permitted above, if, after the toss and 
before	the	first	innings	of	the	match,	the	start	is	delayed,	the	
captain of the batting side may request that the pitch be rolled 
for not more than 7 minutes. However, if the umpires together 
agree	that	the	delay	has	had	no	significant	effect	on	the	state	of	
the pitch, they shall refuse such request for rolling of the pitch.
 9.1.3 Choice of rollers
  If there is more than one roller available the captain of the 
batting side shall choose which one is to be used.
  The following shall apply in addition to clause 9.1:
	 9.1.4	 Prior	to	the	scheduled	time	for	the	toss,	the	artificial	drying	of	
the	pitch	and	outfield	shall	be	at	the	discretion	of	the	Ground	
Authority. Thereafter and throughout the match the drying of the 
outfield	may	be	undertaken	at	any	time	by	the	Ground	Authority,	
but the drying of the affected area of the pitch shall be carried 
out only on the instructions and under the supervision of the 
umpires. The umpires shall be empowered to have the pitch dried 
without reference to the captains at any time they are of the 
opinion	that	it	is	unfit	for	play.
 9.1.5 The umpires may instruct the Ground Authority to use any 
available equipment, including any roller for the purpose of 
drying	the	pitch	and	making	it	fit	for	play.
 9.1.6 An absorbent roller may be used to remove water from the 
covers including the cover on the match pitch.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.20 8.21 11.2 Duration of interval
 11.2.1 Except in circumstances provided for in clause 11.2.2 below, there 
shall be a 30 minute interval between innings, taken from the call 
of Time before the interval until the call of Play on resumption 
after the interval.
 11.2.2 Home Boards may adjust the length of the interval between 
innings to suit their own requirements, provided that the 
scheduled length of the interval in an uninterrupted match is a 
minimum of 30 minutes and a maximum of 45 minutes
 11.3 Allowance for interval between innings
  Law 11.3 shall not apply.
 11.4 Changing agreed times of intervals
	 11.4.1	 If	the	innings	of	the	team	batting	first	is	completed	prior	to	the	
scheduled time for the interval, the interval shall take place 
immediately and the innings of the team batting second will 
commence after the interval.
  Note: The prescribed interval timings above may be reduced by 
the ICC Match Referee taking into account the intention of not 
having a prolonged interval after a lengthy interruption close to 
the	conclusion	of	the	innings	of	the	team	batting	first.	However,	
the minimum interval shall not be less than 10 minutes.
 11.5 Intervals for drinks
 11.5.1 Two drinks breaks per session shall be permitted, each 1 hour 
apart. The provisions of Law 15.9 shall be strictly observed except 
that under conditions of extreme heat the umpires may permit 
extra intervals for drinks. 
 11.5.2 An individual player may be given a drink either on the boundary 
edge	or	at	the	fall	of	a	wicket,	on	the	field,	provided	that	no	
playing time is wasted. No other drinks shall be taken onto the 
field	without	the	permission	of	the	umpires.	Any	player	taking	
drinks	onto	the	field	shall	be	dressed	in	proper	cricket	attire	
(subject	to	the	wearing	of	bibs	–	refer	to	the	note	in	clause	24.1.4).
 11.6 Scorers to be informed
  The umpires shall ensure that the scorers are informed of all agreements 
about hours of play and intervals and of any changes made thereto as 
permitted under this clause.
 12 START OF PLAY; CESSATION OF PLAY
 12.1 Call of Play
	 	 The	bowler’s	end	umpire	shall	call	Play	before	the	first	ball	of	the	match	
and on the resumption of play after any interval or interruption.
 12.2 Call of Time
  The bowler’s end umpire shall call Time, when the ball is dead, at the 
end of any session of play or as required by these Playing Conditions. 
See also clause 20.3 (Call of Over or Time). 9.8.3 The preparation work shall be carried out under the supervision 
of the reserve umpire.
 9.8.4 The consent of the captains is not required but the umpires shall 
advise both captains and the ICC Match Referee before the start 
of the match on what has been agreed.
 10 COVERING THE PITCH
 10.1 Before the match
  The use of covers before the match is the responsibility of the Ground 
Authority and may include full covering if required.
  The pitch shall be entirely protected against rain up to the 
commencement of play.
  However, the Ground Authority shall grant suitable facility to the 
captains to inspect the pitch before the nomination of their players 
and to the umpires to discharge their duties as laid down in clauses 
2 (The umpires), 6 (The pitch), 7 (The creases), 8 (The wickets), and 9 
(Preparation and maintenance of the playing area).
 10.2 During the match
  The pitch shall be entirely protected against rain up to the commencement 
of play, and for the duration of the period of the match.
  The covers must totally protect the pitch and also the pitch 
surroundings, to a minimum of 5 metres either side of the pitch, and any 
worn	or	soft	areas	in	the	outfield.
  The bowlers’ run-ups shall be covered during inclement weather, in 
order to keep them dry, to a distance of at least 10 x 10 metres.
 10.3 Removal of covers
  All covers (including “hessian” or “scrim” covers used to protect the pitch 
against the sun) shall be removed not later than 2 ½ hours before the 
scheduled start of play provided it is not raining at the time, but the pitch 
will be covered again if rain falls prior to the commencement of play.
 11 INTERVALS
 11.1 An interval
 11.1.1 The following shall be classed as intervals.
	 –		Intervals	between	innings.
	 –		Intervals	for	meals.
	 –		Intervals	for	drinks.
	 –		Any	other	agreed	interval.
 11.1.2 Only these intervals shall be considered as scheduled breaks for 
the purposes of clause 24.2.6.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.22 8.23 12.8.3 In calculating the actual over rate for the match, allowances will 
be given as follows:
 12.8.3.1 The time lost as a result of treatment given to a player 
by	an	authorised	medical	personnel	on	the	field	of	play;
 12.8.3.2 The time lost as a result of a player being required to 
leave	the	field	as	a	result	of	a	serious	injury;
 12.8.3.3 The time taken for all third umpire referrals and 
consultations and any umpire or player reviews;
 12.8.3.4 The time lost as a result of time wasting by the 
batting side; and
 12.8.3.5 The time lost due to all other circumstances that are 
beyond	the	control	of	the	fielding	side.
	 12.8.4	 In	the	event	of	any	time	allowances	being	granted	to	the	fielding 	
team under clause 12.8.3.4 above (time wasting by batting team), 
then such time shall be deducted from the allowances granted to 
such batting team in the determination of its over rate.
 12.8.5 If a batting team is bowled out within the time determined for that 
innings pursuant to these playing conditions (taking into account 
all	of	the	time	allowances	set	out	above),	the	fielding	side	shall	be 	
deemed to have complied with the required minimum over rate.
	 12.8.6	 The	current	over	rate	of	the	fielding	team	(+/-	overs	compared	
to the minimum rate required), shall be advised by the 3rd 
umpire every 30 minutes as a minimum.
 13 INNINGS
 13.1 Number of innings
 13.1.1 A match shall be one innings for each side.
 13.2 Alternate innings
  Each side shall take their innings alternately.
 13.3 Completed innings
  A side’s innings is to be considered as completed if any of the  
following applies
 13.3.1 the side is all out.
 13.3.2 at the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batter, further balls 
remain to be bowled but no further batter is available to come in.
 13.3.3 the prescribed number of overs have been bowled to the 
batting side.
 13.4 The toss
	 	 The	captains	shall	toss	a	coin	for	the	choice	of	innings,	on	the	field	of	
play and under the supervision of the ICC Match Referee, not earlier 
than 30 minutes, nor later than 15 minutes before the scheduled or any 
rescheduled time for the start of play. Note, however, the provisions of 
clause 1.3 (Captain). 12.3 Removal of bails
  After the call of Time, the bails shall be removed from both wickets.
 12.4 Starting a new over
  Another over shall always be started at any time during the match, 
unless an interval is to be taken in the circumstances set out in clause 
12.5.2, if the umpire, walking at normal pace, has arrived at the position 
behind the stumps at the bowler’s end before the time agreed for the 
next interval has been reached.
 12.5 Completion of an over
  Other than at the end of the match,
 12.5.1 if the agreed time for an interval is reached during an over, the 
over shall be completed before the interval is taken, except as 
provided for in clause 12.5.2.
 12.5.2 when less than 3 minutes remains before the time agreed for the 
next interval, the interval shall be taken immediately if
   either a batter is dismissed or retires or
		 	 the	players	have	occasion	to	leave	the	field
  whether this occurs during an over or at the end of an over. 
Except at the end of an innings, if an over is thus interrupted it 
shall be completed on the resumption of play.
 12.6 Conclusion of match
 12.6.1 The match is concluded
	 12.6.1.1	 as	soon	as	a	result	as	defined	in	clauses	16.1	to	16.5	
(The result) is reached.
 12.6.1.2 as soon as the prescribed number of overs have  
been completed.
 12.6.2 The match is concluded if, without a conclusion having been 
reached	under	12.6.1,	the	players	leave	the	field	for	adverse	
conditions of ground, weather or light, or in exceptional 
circumstances, and no further play is possible.
 12.7 Hours of Play; Minimum Overs Requirement
 12.7.1 To be determined by the Home Board subject to there being 2 
sessions of 3 hours 10 minutes each, separated by a 45 minute 
interval between innings. 
  Note: The playing hours of matches scheduled to take place at 
venues where dew is likely to be a factor should be determined 
so as to ensure that the effect of any dew is minimised.
 12.8 Minimum Over Rates
 12.8.1 The minimum over rate to be achieved in ODI Matches shall be 
15.79 overs per hour.
 12.8.2 The actual over rate shall be calculated at the end of each 
innings by the umpires.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.24 8.25 13.7.2.1.2 The revision of the number of overs should 
ensure, whenever possible, that both 
teams have the opportunity of batting 
for the same number of overs. The team 
batting second shall not bat for a greater 
number	of	overs	than	the	first	team	unless	
the latter completed its innings in less than 
its allocated overs. To constitute a match, a 
minimum of 20 overs have to be bowled to 
the side batting second, subject to a result 
not being achieved earlier.
 13.7.2.1.3 As soon as the total minutes of playing time 
remaining is less than the completed overs 
faced by Team 1 multiplied by 3.8, then the 
first	innings	is	terminated	and	the	provisions 	
of 13.7.2.2 below take effect.
	 13.7.2.1.4	 A	fixed	time	will	be	specified	for	the 	
commencement of the interval, and 
also the close of play for the match, by 
applying a rate of 15.79 overs per hour. 
When calculating the length of playing 
time available for the match, or the length 
of either innings, the timing and duration 
of all relative delays, extensions in playing 
hours, interruptions in play, and intervals, 
excluding those for drinks, will be taken 
into consideration. This calculation must not 
cause	the	match	to	finish	earlier	than	the 	
original or rescheduled time for cessation 
of	play	on	the	final	scheduled	day	for	play.	If 	
required the original time shall be extended 
to allow for one extra over for each team. 
	 13.7.2.1.5	 If	the	team	fielding	first	fails	to	bowl	the	
revised	number	of	overs	by	the	specified	
time, play shall continue until the required 
number of overs have been bowled or the 
innings is completed. 
 13.7.2.1.6 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates 
(refer to the ICC Code of Conduct).
 13.7.2.2 Delay or Interruption to the innings of the Team 
Batting Second (see paragraph 2 of Appendix E)
 13.7.2.2.1 When playing time has been lost and, as 
a result, it is not possible for the team 
batting second to have the opportunity of 
receiving its allocated, or revised allocation 
of overs in the playing time available, the 
number of overs shall be reduced at a rate 
of 15.79 overs per hour, which is inclusive 
of the provision of drinks intervals, in 
respect of the lost playing time. Should the 
calculations result in a fraction of an over 
the fraction shall be ignored. 	 13.5	 Decision	to	be	notified
  As soon as the toss is completed, the captain of the side winning the 
toss	shall	decide	whether	to	bat	or	to	field	and	shall	notify	the	opposing	
captain	and	the	umpires	of	this	decision.	Once	notified,	the	decision	
cannot be changed.
 13.6 Duration of Match
 13.6.1 All matches will consist of one innings per side, each innings 
being limited to a maximum of 50 overs. All matches shall be of 
one day’s scheduled duration.
 13.6.2 For clarity there are no reserve days for any match played under 
these playing conditions.
 13.7 Length of Innings
 13.7.1 Uninterrupted Matches.
 13.7.1.1 Each team shall bat for 50 overs unless all out earlier. 
	 13.7.1.2	 If	the	team	fielding	first	fails	to	bowl	the	required	
number of overs by the scheduled time for cessation 
of	the	first	innings,	play	shall	continue	until	the	
required number of overs has been bowled. The 
interval shall be reduced to enable the second innings 
to commence at the scheduled time, subject to there 
being a minimum interval of 30 minutes. The team 
batting second shall receive its full quota of 50 overs 
irrespective of the number of overs it bowled in the 
scheduled	time	for	the	cessation	of	the	first	innings.	
	 13.7.1.3	 If	the	team	batting	first	is	dismissed	in	less	than	50	
overs, the team batting second shall be entitled to 
bat for 50 overs. 
	 13.7.1.4	 If	the	team	fielding	second	fails	to	bowl	50	overs	by	
the scheduled cessation time, the hours of play shall 
be extended until the required number of overs has 
been bowled or a result is achieved. 
 13.7.1.5 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates (refer ICC 
Code of Conduct).
 13.7.2 Delayed or Interrupted Matches 
 13.7.2.1 Delay or Interruption to the Innings of the Team 
Batting First (see paragraph 1 of Appendix E)
 13.7.2.1.1 When playing time has been lost the 
revised number of overs to be bowled in 
the match shall be based on a rate of 15.79 
overs per hour, which is inclusive of the 
provision of drinks intervals, in the total 
remaining time available for play.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.26 8.27 14 THE FOLLOW-ON
 Shall not apply.
 15 DECLARATION AND FORFEITURE
 Shall not apply.
 16 THE RESULT
 16.1 A Win – one-innings match
 16.1.1 The side which has scored in its one innings a total of runs in 
excess of that scored by the opposing side in its one completed 
innings shall win the match. See clause 13.3 (Completed innings). 
Note also 16.4 (Winning hit or extras).
 16.1.2 Save for circumstances where a match is awarded to a team as 
a consequence of the opposing team’s refusal to play (clause 
16.2), a result can be achieved only if both teams have had the 
opportunity of batting for at least 20 overs, unless one team 
has been all out in less than 20 overs or unless the team batting 
second scores enough runs to win in less than 20 overs.
 16.1.3 Save for circumstances where a match is awarded to a team as a 
consequence of the opposing team’s refusal to play (clause 16.2), 
all matches in which both teams have not had an opportunity of 
batting for a minimum of 20 overs, shall be declared a No Result.
 16.2 ICC Match Referee awarding a match
 16.2.1 A match shall be lost by a side which either
 16.2.1.1 concedes defeat or
 16.2.1.2 in the opinion of the ICC Match Referee refuses to play 
and the ICC Match Referee shall award the match to 
the other side.
 16.2.2 If an umpire considers that an action by any player or players 
might constitute a refusal by either side to play then the umpires 
together shall inform the ICC Match Referee of this fact. The 
ICC Match Referee shall together with the umpires ascertain 
the cause of the action. If the ICC Match Referee, after due 
consultation with the umpires, then decides that this action does 
constitute a refusal to play by one side, he/she shall so inform 
the captain of that side. If the captain persists in the action the 
ICC Match Referee shall award the match in accordance with 
clause 16.2.1.2 above.
 16.2.3 If action as in clause 16.2.2 above takes place after play has 
started and does not constitute a refusal to play the delay or 
interruption in play shall be dealt with in the same manner as 
provided for in clauses 13.7.2 (Delayed and Interrupted Matches) 
and 11.4 (Changing agreed times for intervals) above.
  Note: In addition to the consequences of any refusal to play 
prescribed under this clause, any such refusal, whether temporary 
or	final,	may	result	in	disciplinary	action	being	taken	against	the 	
captain and team responsible under the Code of Conduct. 13.7.2.2.2 In addition, should the innings of the team 
batting	first	have	been	completed	prior	to	
the scheduled, or re-scheduled time for 
the commencement of the interval, then 
any calculation relating to the revision of 
overs shall not be effective until an amount 
of time equivalent to that by which the 
second innings started early has elapsed. 
 13.7.2.2.3 To constitute a match, a minimum of 20 
overs have to be bowled to the team 
batting second subject to a result not being 
achieved earlier.
 13.7.2.2.4 The team batting second shall not bat for a 
greater	number	of	overs	than	the	first	team	
unless the latter completed its innings in 
less than its allocated overs. 
	 13.7.2.2.5	 A	fixed	time	will	be	specified	for	the	close	
of play by applying a rate of 15.79 overs 
per hour. With the exception of drinks 
intervals, the timing and duration of all 
relative delays, extensions in playing hours 
and interruptions in play, will be taken into 
consideration in specifying this time. 
	 13.7.2.2.6	 If	the	team	fielding	second	fails	to	bowl	
the revised overs by the scheduled or 
re-scheduled close of play, the hours of 
play shall be extended until the overs have 
been bowled or a result achieved.
 13.7.2.2.7 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates 
(refer to the ICC Code of Conduct).
 13.8 Extra Time
  The participating countries may agree to provide for extra time where 
the start of play is delayed or play is suspended.
 13.9 Number of Overs per Bowler
 13.9.1 No bowler shall bowl more than 10 overs in an innings. 
 13.9.2 In a delayed or interrupted match where the overs are reduced 
for both teams or for the team bowling second, no bowler may 
bowl	more	than	one-fifth	of	the	total	overs	allowed.	
 13.9.3 Where the total overs is not divisible by 5, one additional over 
shall be allowed to the maximum number per bowler necessary 
to make up the balance. 
 13.9.4 In the event of a bowler breaking down and being unable 
to complete an over, the remaining balls will be allowed by 
another bowler. Such part of an over will count as a full over 
only in so far as each bowler’s limit is concerned. 
 13.9.5 The scoreboard shall show the total number of overs bowled 
and the number of overs bowled by each bowler. ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.28 8.29 16.6 Statement of result
  If the side batting last wins the match without losing all its wickets, the 
result shall be stated as a win by the number of wickets still then to fall.
  If, without having scored a total of runs in excess of the total scored 
by the opposing side, the innings of the side batting last has been 
completed, but as the result of an award of 5 Penalty runs its total of 
runs	is	then	sufficient	to	win,	the	result	shall	be	stated	as	a	win	to	that	
side by Penalty runs.
	 	 If	the	side	fielding	last	wins	the	match,	the	result	shall	be	stated	as	a	win	
by runs.
  If the match is decided by one side conceding defeat or refusing to play, 
the result shall be stated as Match Conceded or Match Awarded, as the 
case may be.
 16.7 Correctness of result
  Any decision as to the correctness of the scores shall be the 
responsibility of the umpires. See clause 2.15 (Correctness of scores).
 16.8 Mistakes in scoring
	 	 If,	after	the	players	and	umpires	have	left	the	field	in	the	belief	that	
the match has been concluded, the umpires discover that a mistake in 
scoring has occurred which affects the result then, subject to clause 16.9, 
they shall adopt the following procedure.
	 16.8.1	 If,	when	the	players	leave	the	field,	the	side	batting	last	has	not	
completed its innings and
  either the number of overs to be bowled in that innings has not 
been completed, or
  the end of the innings has not been reached,
  then, unless one side concedes defeat, the umpires shall order 
play to resume.
  Unless a result is reached sooner, play will then continue, if 
conditions permit, until the prescribed number of overs has 
been completed. The number of overs shall be taken as they 
were at the call of Time for the supposed conclusion of the 
match. No account shall be taken of the time between that 
moment and the resumption of play.
 16.8.2 If, at this call of Time, the overs have been completed and no 
Playing time remains, or if the side batting last has completed 
its innings, the umpires shall immediately inform both captains 
of the necessary corrections to the scores and to the result.
 16.9 Result not to be changed
  Once the umpires have agreed with the scorers the correctness of the 
scores	at	the	conclusion	of	the	match	–	see	clauses	2.15	(Correctness	of	
scores)	and	3.2	(Correctness	of	scores)	–	the	result	cannot	thereafter	  
be changed. 16.3 All other matches – A Tie or No Result
 16.3.1 A Tie
  The result of a match shall be a Tie when all innings have been 
completed and the scores are equal.
  If the scores are equal, the result shall be a tie and no account 
shall be taken of the number of wickets that have fallen.
 16.3.2 No Result
  See 16.1.3 above.
 16.4 Prematurely Terminated Matches – Calculation of the Target Score
	 16.4.1	 Interrupted	Matches	–	Calculation	of	the	Target	Score
 16.4.1.1 If, due to suspension of play after the start of the 
match, the number of overs in the innings of either 
team has to be revised to a lesser number than 
originally allotted (minimum of 20 overs), then a 
revised target score (to win) should be set for the 
number of overs which the team batting second will 
have the opportunity of facing. This revised target is 
to be calculated using the current Duckworth/Lewis/
Stern method. The target set will always be a whole 
number and one run less will constitute a Tie. (Refer 
Duckworth/Lewis/Stern Regulations).
 16.4.2 Prematurely Terminated Matches
 16.4.2.1 If the innings of the side batting second is suspended 
(with at least 20 overs bowled) and it is not possible 
for the match to be resumed, the match will be 
decided	by	comparison	with	the	DLS	‘Par	Score’	
determined at the instant of the suspension by the 
Duckworth/Lewis/Stern method (refer Duckworth/
Lewis/Stern Regulations). If the score is equal to the 
par score, the match is a Tie. Otherwise the result is a 
victory, or defeat, by the margin of runs by which the 
score exceeds, or falls short of, the Par Score.
 16.5 Winning hit or extras
	 16.5.1	 As	soon	as	a	result	is	reached	as	defined	in	clauses	16.1,	16.2	or	
16.3.1, the match is at an end. Nothing that happens thereafter, 
except as in clause 41.18.2 (Penalty runs), shall be regarded as 
part of it. Note also clause 16.8.
 16.5.2 The side batting last will have scored enough runs to win only if its 
total	of	runs	is	sufficient	without	including	any	runs	completed	by 	
the batters before the completion of a catch, or the obstruction of 
a catch, from which the striker could be dismissed.
 16.5.3 If a boundary is scored before the batters have completed 
sufficient	runs	to	win	the	match,	the	whole	of	the	boundary	
allowance shall be credited to the side’s total and, in the case of 
a hit by the bat, to the striker’s score.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.30 8.31 16.10.2 Net Run Rate 
  A team’s net run rate is calculated by deducting from the 
average runs per over scored by that team throughout the 
competition, the average runs per over scored against that 
team throughout the competition. 
  In the event of a team being all out in less than its full quota 
of overs, the calculation of its net run rate of both teams shall 
be based on the full quota of overs to which the batting team 
would have been entitled and not on the number of overs in 
which the team was dismissed. 
  Only those matches where results are achieved will count for 
the purpose of net run rate calculations. Where a match is 
abandoned, but a result is achieved under Duckworth/Lewis/
Stern, for net run rate purposes Team 1 will be accredited with 
Team 2’s Par Score on abandonment off the same number of 
overs faced by Team 2. Where a match is concluded but with 
Duckworth/Lewis/Stern having been applied at an earlier point 
in the match, Team 1 will be accredited with 1 run less than 
the	final	target	score	for	Team	2	off	the	total	number	of	overs	
allocated to Team 2 to reach the target. 
  In circumstances where a match (and the points for such match) 
is awarded to a team as a result of the other team’s refusal to 
play, either by the ICC Match Referee in accordance with clause 
16.2 or in accordance with the provisions of the relevant event 
agreements signed by the participating teams, the net run rate 
of the defaulting team shall be affected in that the full 50 overs 
of the defaulting team’s innings in such forfeited match shall 
be taken into account in calculating the average runs per over 
of the defaulting team over the course of the league. For the 
avoidance of doubt the runs scored and overs bowled in such 
forfeited match will not be taken into account when calculating 
the net run rate of the team to whom the match was awarded. 
  In the event of any dispute the ICC Event Technical Committee 
may	be	called	on	to	make	a	ruling	and	its	ruling	will	be	final.
 17 THE OVER
 17.1 Number of balls
  The ball shall be bowled from each end alternately in overs of 6 balls.
 17.2 Start of an over
  An over has started when the bowler starts her run-up or, if there is no 
run-up,	starts	her	action	for	the	first	delivery	of	that	over.
 17.3 Validity of balls
 17.3.1 A ball shall not count as one of the 6 balls of the over unless it 
is delivered, even though, as in clause 41.16 (Non-striker leaving 
her ground early) a batter may be dismissed or some other 
incident occurs without the ball having been delivered.
 17.3.2 A ball delivered by the bowler shall not count as one of the 6 
balls of the over 16.10 Event Format
  The ICC Women’s Championship will be contested by the following 
eight teams who have been seeded according to their positions at the 
ICC Women’s World Cup 2017:
  England (1)
  India (2)
  Australia (3)
  South Africa (4)
  New Zealand (5)
  West Indies (6)
  Sri Lanka (7)
  Pakistan (8)
  At the conclusion of the ICC Women’s Championship, the host (New 
Zealand) plus the top three ranked teams (other than New Zealand) will 
automatically qualify for the ICC Women’s World Cup 2021. The remaining 
four	teams	will	take	part	in	the	ICC	Women’s	World	Cup	2021	Qualifier.
  Each team will play one series against the other seven teams in a 
round-robin format. There shall be a maximum of four home series and a 
minimum of three home series per team. 
  Points will be allocated for each match in accordance with the system 
described in clause 16.10.1 of these playing conditions. 
  Following the completion of the round-robin matches, each team’s 
position	in	the	league	table	will	represent	its	final	event	ranking.
 16.10.1 Round-Robin Matches 
  The following points system shall apply:
  Win ........................................................................................ 2 
  Tie, No Result or Abandoned ........................... 1
  Loss ....................................................................................... 0 
	 	 In	the	event	of	teams	finishing	on	equal	points	at	the	end	of	the	
round-robin	matches,	the	final	event	rankings	will	be	decided	in	
the following order of priority:
	 –	The	team	with	the	most	number	of	wins
	 –	If	still	equal,	the	team	with	the	highest	net	run	rate	in	all	
round robin matches
	 –	The	team	which	has	earned	more	points	in	the	head	to	head	
matches
	 –	If	still	equal,	the	team	with	the	highest	net	run	rate	in	the	
head to head matches
	 	 If	the	above	does	not	resolve	the	final	event	rankings,	or	if	all	
matches produce no results, then any tied teams will be ordered 
as per their original seeding as above. 
  Please note in a match declared as no result, run rate is  
not applicable.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.32 8.33 17.8 Bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over
  If for any reason a bowler is incapacitated while running up to deliver 
the	first	ball	of	an	over,	or	is	incapacitated	or	suspended	during	an	over,	
the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball. Another bowler shall complete 
the over from the same end, provided that she does not bowl two overs 
consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of two consecutive overs, in  
that innings.
 18 SCORING RUNS
 18.1 A run
  The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored
 18.1.1 so often as the batters, at any time while the ball is in play, have 
crossed and made good their ground from end to end.
 18.1.2 when a boundary is scored. See clause 19 (Boundaries).
 18.1.3 when Penalty runs are awarded. See clause 18.6.
 18.2 Runs disallowed
  Wherever in these Playing Conditions provision is made for the scoring 
of runs or awarding of penalties, such runs and penalties will be subject 
to any provisions that may be applicable for the disallowance of runs or 
for the non-award of penalties.
  When runs are disallowed, the one run penalty for No ball or Wide shall 
stand and 5 run penalties shall be allowed, except for Penalty runs under 
clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 18.3 Short runs
 18.3.1 A run is short if a batter fails to make good her ground in turning 
for a further run.
 18.3.2 Although a short run shortens the succeeding one, the latter if 
completed shall not be regarded as short. A striker setting off 
for	the	first	run	from	in	front	of	the	popping	crease	may	do	so	
also without penalty.
 18.4 Unintentional short runs
  Except in the circumstances of clause 18.5,
 18.4.1 if either batter runs a short run, the umpire concerned shall, 
unless a boundary is scored, call and signal Short run as soon as 
the ball becomes dead and that run shall not be scored.
 18.4.2 if, after either or both batters run short, a boundary is scored 
the umpire concerned shall disregard the short running and shall 
not call or signal Short run.
 18.4.3 if both batters run short in one and the same run, this shall be 
regarded as only one short run.
 18.4.4 if more than one run is short then, subject to clauses 18.4.2 and 
18.4.3, all runs called as short shall not be scored.
 18.4.5 if there has been more than one short run, the umpire shall 
inform the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded. 17.3.2.1 if it is called dead, or is to be considered dead, before 
the striker has had an opportunity to play it. See 
clause 20.6 (Dead ball; ball counting as one of over).
 17.3.2.2 if it is called dead in the circumstances of clause 
20.4.2.6. Note also the special provisions of clause 
20.4.2.5 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball).
 17.3.2.3 if it is a No ball. See clause 21 (No ball).
 17.3.2.4 if it is a Wide. See clause 22 (Wide ball).
 17.3.2.5 when any of clauses 24.4 (Player returning without 
permission), 28.2 (Fielding the ball), 41.4 (Deliberate 
attempt to distract striker), or 41.5 (Deliberate 
distraction, deception or obstruction of batter)  
is applied.
 17.3.3 Any deliveries other than those listed in clauses 17.3.1 and 17.3.2 
shall be known as valid balls. Only valid balls shall count towards 
the 6 balls of the over.
 17.4 Call of Over
  When 6 valid balls have been bowled and when the ball becomes dead, 
the umpire shall call Over before leaving the wicket. See also clause 20.3 
(Call of Over or Time).
 17.5 Umpire miscounting
 17.5.1 If the umpire miscounts the number of valid balls, the over as 
counted by the umpire shall stand.
 17.5.2 If, having miscounted, the umpire allows an over to continue 
after 6 valid balls have been bowled, he/she may subsequently 
call Over when the ball becomes dead after any delivery, even if 
that delivery is not a valid ball.
 17.5.3 Whenever possible, the third umpire shall liaise with the  
scorers	and	if	possible	inform	the	on-field	umpires	if	the	over	
has been miscounted.
 17.6 Bowler changing ends
  A bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as desired, provided 
she does not bowl two overs consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of 
two consecutive overs, in the same innings.
 17.7 Finishing an over
	 17.7.1	 Other	than	at	the	end	of	an	innings,	a	bowler	shall	finish	an	over	
in progress unless incapacitated or suspended under these 
Playing Conditions.
 17.7.2 If for any reason, other than the end of an innings, an over is left 
uncompleted at the start of an interval or interruption, it shall 
be completed on resumption of play.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.34 8.35 18.9 Runs scored when the ball becomes dead other than at the fall of a wicket
  When the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the fall of a wicket, 
or	is	called	dead	by	an	umpire,	unless	there	is	specific	provision	otherwise	in 	
these Playing Conditions, any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall 
be scored. Note however the provisions of clauses 23.3 (Leg byes not to be 
awarded)	and	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
  Additionally the batting side shall be credited with all runs completed 
by the batters before the incident or call of Dead ball and the run in 
progress if the batters had already crossed at the instant of the incident 
or	call	of	Dead	ball.	Note	specifically,	however,	the	provisions	of	clause	
41.5.8 (Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batter).
 18.10 Crediting of runs scored
  Unless stated otherwise in these Playing Conditions,
 18.10.1 if the ball is struck by the bat, all runs scored by the batting side 
shall be credited to the striker, except for the following:
	 –		an	award	of	5	Penalty	runs,	which	shall	be	scored	as	Penalty	runs
	 –		the	one	run	penalty	for	a	No	ball,	which	shall	be	scored	as	a	
No ball extra.
 18.10.2 if the ball is not struck by the bat, runs shall be scored as Penalty 
runs, Byes, Leg byes, No ball extras or Wides as the case may 
be. If Byes or Leg byes accrue from a No ball, only the one run 
penalty for No ball shall be scored as such, and the remainder as 
Byes or Leg byes as appropriate.
 18.10.3 the bowler shall be debited with:
	 –		all	runs	scored	by	the	striker
	 –		all	runs	scored	as	No	ball	extras
	 –		all	runs	scored	as	Wides.
 18.11 Batter returning to original end
 18.11.1 When the striker is dismissed in any of the circumstances in 
clauses 18.11.1.1 to 18.11.1.5, the not out batter shall return to her 
original end.
 18.11.1.1 Bowled.
 18.11.1.2 Stumped.
 18.11.1.3 Hit the ball twice.
 18.11.1.4 LBW.
 18.11.1.5 Hit wicket.
 18.11.2 The batters shall return to their original ends in any of the cases 
of clauses 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3.
 18.11.2.1 A boundary is scored.
 18.11.2.2 Runs are disallowed for any reason.
 18.11.2.3 A decision by the batters at the wicket to do so, 
under clause 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception or 
obstruction of batter). 18.5 Deliberate short runs
 18.5.1 If either umpire considers that one or both batters deliberately 
ran short at that umpire’s end, the umpire concerned shall, 
when the ball is dead, call and signal Short run and inform the 
other umpire of what has occurred and apply clause 18.5.2.
 18.5.2 The bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side
	 –		return	any	not	out	batter	to	her	original	end
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	to	the	scorers,	if	applicable
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side
	 –		award	any	other	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side)
	 –		inform	the	scorers	as	to	the	number	of	runs	to	be	recorded,	and
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
 18.6 Runs awarded for penalties
  Runs shall be awarded for penalties under clause 18.5 (Deliberate 
short runs), 21 (No ball), 22 (Wide ball), 24.4 (Player returning without 
permission), 26.4 (Penalties for contravention), 28.2(Fielding the ball), 28.3 
(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side)	41	(Unfair	play)	and 	
42 (Players’ conduct). Note, however, the restrictions on the award of 
Penalty runs in clauses 23.3 (Leg byes not to be awarded), 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side)	and	34	(Hit	the	ball	twice).
 18.7 Runs scored for boundaries
  Runs shall be scored for boundary allowances under clause 19 (Boundaries).
 18.8 Runs scored when a batter is dismissed
  When a batter is dismissed, any runs for penalties awarded to either 
side shall stand.
  No other runs shall be credited to the batting side, except as follows.
	 18.8.1	 If	a	batter	is	dismissed	Obstructing	the	field,	the	batting	side	
shall also score any runs completed before the offence.
  If, however, the obstruction prevented a catch being made, no 
runs other than penalties shall be scored.
 18.8.2 If a batter is dismissed Run out, the batting side shall also score 
any runs completed before the wicket was put down.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.36 8.37 19.2.4 If an unauthorized person enters the playing arena and handles 
the ball, the umpire at the bowler’s end shall be the sole judge 
of whether the boundary allowance should be scored or the ball 
be treated as still in play or called dead ball if a batter is liable to 
be out as a result of the unauthorized person handling the ball.
 19.3 Restoring the boundary
  If a solid object used to mark the boundary is disturbed for any reason, then:
 19.3.1 the boundary shall be considered to be in its original position.
 19.3.2 the object shall be returned to its original position as soon as 
is practicable; if play is taking place, this shall be as soon as the 
ball is dead.
	 19.3.3	 if	some	part	of	a	fence	or	other	marker	has	come	within	the	field	
of	play,	that	part	shall	be	removed	from	the	field	of	play	as	soon	
as is practicable; if play is taking place, this shall be as soon as 
the ball is dead.
 19.4 Ball grounded beyond the boundary
 19.4.1 The ball in play is grounded beyond the boundary if it touches
	 –		the	boundary	or	any	part	of	an	object	used	to	mark	the	
boundary;
	 –		the	ground	beyond	the	boundary;
	 –		any	object	that	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary.
 19.4.2 The ball in play is to be regarded as being grounded beyond the 
boundary if
	 –		a	fielder,	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	as	in	clause	19.5,	
touches the ball;
	 –		a	fielder,	after	catching	the	ball	within	the	boundary,	
becomes grounded beyond the boundary while in contact 
with the ball, before completing the catch.
 19.5 Fielder grounded beyond the boundary
	 19.5.1	 A	fielder	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	if	some	part	of	her	
person is in contact with any of the following:
	 –		the	boundary	or	any	part	of	an	object	used	to	mark	 
the boundary;
	 –		the	ground	beyond	the	boundary;
	 –		any	object	that	is	in	contact	with	the	ground	beyond	 
the boundary;
	 –		another	fielder	who	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary.
	 19.5.2	 A	fielder	who	is	not	in	contact	with	the	ground	is	considered	to	
be	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	if	her	final	contact	with	the	
ground,	before	her	first	contact	with	the	ball	after	it	has	been	
delivered by the bowler, was not entirely within the boundary. 18.12 Batter returning to wicket she has left
 18.12.1 When a batter is dismissed in any of the ways in clauses 18.12.1.1 
to 18.12.1.3, the not out batter shall return to the wicket she 
has left but only if the batters had not already crossed at the 
instant of the incident causing the dismissal. If runs are to be 
disallowed, however, the not out batter shall return to her 
original end.
 18.12.1.1 Caught
	 18.12.1.2	 Obstructing	the	field
 18.12.1.3 Run out.
 18.12.2 If, while a run is in progress, the ball becomes dead for any 
reason other than the dismissal of a batter, the batters shall 
return to the wickets they had left, but only if they had not 
already crossed in running when the ball became dead. If, 
however, any of the circumstances of clauses 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3 
apply, the batters shall return to their original ends.
 19 BOUNDARIES
	 19.1	 Determining	the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play
 19.1.1 Before the toss, the umpires shall determine the boundary of the 
field	of	play,	which	shall	be	fixed	for	the	duration	of	the	match.	
See clause 2.3.4 (Consultation with Home Board).
 19.1.2 The boundary shall be determined such that no part of any sight-
screen,	will,	at	any	stage	of	the	match,	be	within	the	field	of	play.
 19.1.3 With respect to the size of the boundaries, no boundary shall be 
longer than 65 yards (59.43 meters), and no boundary should be 
shorter than 55 yards (50.29 metres) from the centre of the pitch 
to be used.
 19.1.4 Any ground on which a Test or ODI International has been 
played prior to 1 October 2005 which cannot conform with these 
minimum dimensions shall be exempt from this playing condition. 
Any new ground must conform to these minimum dimensions.
 19.2 Identifying and marking the boundary
 19.2.1 All boundaries must be designated by a rope, or similar object 
of a minimum standard as authorised by the ICC from time 
to time. The rope should be positioned a required minimum 
distance (3 yards (2.74 metres) minimum) inside the perimeter 
fencing or advertising signs, or from any solid object located 
between the rope and the fence/signs. For grounds with a large 
playing area, the maximum length of boundary should be used 
before applying the minimum 3 yards (2.74 metres) between the 
boundary and the fence.
 19.2.2 If the boundary is marked by means of an object that is in 
contact with the ground the boundary will be the edge of the 
grounded part of the object which is nearest the pitch.
	 19.2.3	 An	obstacle	within	the	field	of	play	shall	not	be	regarded	as	a	
boundary unless so determined by the umpires before the toss. 
See clause 2.3.4 (Consultation with Home Board).ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.38 8.39 20.1.1.3 a batter is dismissed. The ball will be deemed to be dead 
from the instant of the incident causing the dismissal.
 20.1.1.4 whether played or not it becomes trapped between 
the bat and person of a batter or between items of 
her clothing or equipment.
 20.1.1.5 whether played or not it lodges in the clothing or 
equipment of a batter or the clothing of an umpire.
 20.1.1.6 there is an award of Penalty runs under either of 
clauses 24.4 (Player returning without permission) or 
28.3 (Fielding the ball). The ball shall not count as one 
of the over.
 20.1.1.7 there is a contravention of clause 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 20.1.1.8 the match is concluded in any of the ways stated in 
clause 12.6 (Conclusion of match).
 20.1.2 The ball shall be considered to be dead when it is clear to the 
bowler’s	end	umpire	that	the	fielding	side	and	both	batters	at	
the wicket have ceased to regard it as in play.
	 20.1.3	 In	a	match	where	cameras	are	being	used	on	or	over	the	field	
of play (e.g. Spydercam), should a ball that has been hit by the 
batter make contact, while still in play, with the camera, its 
apparatus	or	its	cable,	either	umpire	shall	call	and	signal	‘dead	
ball’. The ball shall not count as one of the over and no runs shall 
be scored. If the delivery was called a No ball it shall count and 
the No ball penalty shall be applied. No other runs (including 
penalty runs) apart from the No ball penalty shall be scored.
	 20.1.4	 Should	a	ball	thrown	by	a	fielder	make	contact	with	a	camera	on	
or	over	the	field	of	play,	its	apparatus	or	its	cable,	either	umpire	
shall call and signal dead ball. Unless this was already a No ball 
or Wide, the ball shall count as one of the over. All runs scored 
to that point shall count, plus the run in progress if the batters 
have already crossed.
 20.1.5 Refer also to paragraph 2.6 of Appendix D.
	 20.2	 Ball	finally	settled
	 	 Whether	the	ball	is	finally	settled	or	not	is	a	matter	for	the	umpire	alone	
to decide.
 20.3 Call of Over or Time
  Neither the call of Over (see clause 17.4), nor the call of Time (see clause 
12.2) is to be made until the ball is dead, either under clauses 20.1 or 20.4.
 20.4 Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball
 20.4.1 When the ball has become dead under clause 20.1, the bowler’s 
end umpire may call and signal Dead ball if it is necessary to 
inform the players.
 20.4.2 Either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball when
 20.4.2.1 intervening in a case of unfair play. 19.6 Boundary allowances
 19.6.1 6 runs shall be allowed for a boundary 6; and 4 runs for a 
boundary 4. See also clause 19.7.
 19.7 Runs scored from boundaries
 19.7.1 A boundary 6 will be scored if and only if the ball has been struck 
by	the	bat	and	is	first	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	without 	
having	been	in	contact	with	the	ground	within	the	field	of	play. 	
This	shall	apply	even	if	the	ball	has	previously	touched	a	fielder.
 19.7.2 A boundary 4 will be scored when a ball that is grounded 
beyond the boundary
	 –		whether	struck	by	the	bat	or	not,	was	first	grounded	within	
the boundary, or
	 –		has	not	been	struck	by	the	bat.
 19.7.3 When a boundary is scored, the batting side, except in the 
circumstances of clause 19.8, shall be awarded whichever is the 
greater of
 19.7.3.1 the allowance for the boundary
 19.7.3.2 the runs completed by the batters together with 
the run in progress if they had already crossed at the 
instant the boundary is scored.
 19.7.4 When the runs in clause 19.7.3.2 exceed the boundary allowance 
they shall replace the boundary allowance for the purposes of 
clause 18.12.2.
 19.7.5 The scoring of Penalty runs by either side is not affected by the 
scoring of a boundary.
	 19.8	 Overthrow	or	wilful	act	of	fielder
  If the boundary results from an overthrow or from the wilful act of a 
fielder,	the	runs	scored	shall	be
  any runs for penalties awarded to either side
  and the allowance for the boundary
  and the runs completed by the batters, together with the run in 
progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the throw or act.
  Clause 18.12.2 (Batter returning to wicket she has left) shall apply as from 
the instant of the throw or act.
 20 DEAD BALL
 20.1 Ball is dead
 20.1.1 The ball becomes dead when
	 20.1.1.1	 it	is	finally	settled	in	the	hands	of	the	wicket-keeper	
or of the bowler.
 20.1.1.2 a boundary is scored. See clause 19.7 (Runs scored 
from boundaries).ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.40 8.41 21 NO BALL
 21.1 Mode of delivery
 21.1.1 The umpire shall ascertain whether the bowler intends to bowl 
right handed or left handed, over or round the wicket, and shall 
so inform the striker.
  It is unfair if the bowler fails to notify the umpire of a change in 
her mode of delivery. In this case the umpire shall call and signal 
No ball.
 21.1.2 Underarm bowling shall not be permitted.
 21.2 Fair delivery – the arm
  For a delivery to be fair in respect of the arm the ball must not be 
delivered with an Illegal Bowling Action.
	 	 An	Illegal	Bowling	Action	is	defined	as	a	bowling	action	where	a	
bowler’s Elbow Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured from the point 
at which the bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the point at which 
the ball is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for 
the purposes of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).
  Should either umpire or the ICC Match Referee suspect that a bowler 
has used an Illegal Bowling Action, they shall complete the ICC Bowling 
Action Report Form at the conclusion of the match, as set out in the 
Illegal Bowling Regulations.
 21.3 Ball thrown or delivered underarm – action by umpires
 21.3.1 If, in the opinion of either umpire, the ball has been thrown 
(where such mode of delivery does not correspond to the 
bowler’s normal bowling action) or delivered underarm, he/she 
shall call and signal No ball and, when the ball is dead, inform 
the other umpire of the reason for the call.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		warn	the	bowler,	indicating	that	this	is	a	first	and	final	
warning. This warning shall apply to that bowler throughout 
the innings.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
	 –		inform	the	batters	at	the	wicket	of	what	has	occurred.
 21.3.2 If either umpire considers that, in that innings, a further delivery 
by the same bowler is thrown (where such mode of delivery 
does not correspond to the bowler’s normal bowling action) or 
delivered underarm, he/she shall call and signal No ball and when 
the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the reason for the call.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	
immediately from bowling. The over shall, if applicable, be 
completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled 
the previous over or part thereof nor be allowed to bowl any 
part of the next over. The bowler thus suspended shall not 
bowl again in that innings. 20.4.2.2 a possibly serious injury to a player or umpire occurs.
 20.4.2.3 leaving his/her normal position for consultation.
 20.4.2.4 one or both bails fall from the striker’s wicket before 
the striker has had the opportunity of playing the ball.
 20.4.2.5 the striker is not ready for the delivery of the ball and, 
if the ball is delivered, makes no attempt to play it. 
Provided	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	the	striker	had	
adequate reason for not being ready, the ball shall not 
count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.6 the striker is distracted by any noise or movement 
or in any other way while preparing to receive, or 
receiving a delivery. This shall apply whether the 
source of the distraction is within the match or 
outside it. Note also clause 20.4.2.7. The ball shall not 
count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.7 there is an instance of a deliberate attempt to distract 
under either of clauses 41.4 (Deliberate attempt 
to distract striker) or 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, 
deception or obstruction of batter). The ball shall not 
count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.8 the bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery.
 20.4.2.9 the ball does not leave the bowler’s hand for 
any reason other than an attempt to run out the 
non-striker under clause 41.16 (Non-striker leaving her 
ground early).
	 20.4.2.10	 satisfied	that	the	ball	in	play	cannot	be	recovered.
 20.4.2.11 required to do so under any of the Playing Conditions 
not included above.
 20.5 Ball ceases to be dead
	 	 The	ball	ceases	to	be	dead	–	that	is,	it	comes	into	play	–	when	the	bowler 	
starts her run-up or, if there is no run-up, starts her bowling action.
 20.6 Dead ball; ball counting as one of over
 20.6.1 When a ball which has been delivered is called dead or is to be 
considered dead then, other than as in clause 20.6.2,
 20.6.1.1 it will not count in the over if the striker has not had 
an opportunity to play it.
 20.6.1.2 Unless No ball or Wide ball has been called, it will be 
a valid ball if the striker has had an opportunity to 
play it, except in the circumstances of clauses 20.4.2.6 
and 24.4 ( Player returning without permission), 28.2 
(Fielding the ball), 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract 
striker) and 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception or 
obstruction of batter).
 20.6.2 In clause 20.4.2.5, the ball will not count in the over only if both 
conditions of not attempting to play the ball and having an 
adequate reason for not being ready are met. Otherwise the 
delivery will be a valid ball.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.42 8.43 21.9 Fielder intercepting a delivery
  If except in the circumstances of clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper) 
a	ball,	delivered	by	the	bowler,	makes	contact	with	any	part	of	a	fielder’s	
person before it either makes contact with the striker’s bat or person, or 
it passes the striker’s wicket, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and 
immediately call and signal Dead ball.
 21.10 Ball bouncing over head height of striker
  See clauses 22.1.1.2 and 41.6.1.7.
 21.11 Call of No ball for infringement of other Playing Conditions
  In addition to the instances above, No ball is to be called and signalled as 
required by the following clauses:
	 	 Clause	27.3	–	Position	of	wicket-keeper	
	 	 Clause	28.4	–	Limitation	of	on	side	fielders
	 	 Clause	28.5	–	Fielders	not	to	encroach	on	pitch
	 	 Clause	41.6	–	Bowling	of	dangerous	and	unfair	short	pitched	deliveries
	 	 Clause	41.7	–	Bowling	of	dangerous	and	unfair	non-pitching	deliveries
	 	 Clause	41.8	–	Bowling	of	deliberate	front	foot	No	ball.
 21.12 Revoking a call of No ball
  An umpire shall revoke the call of No ball if Dead ball is called under any 
of clauses 20.4.2.4 to 20.4.2.9 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball). 
However, if a no ball is called in breach of clause 20.4.2.7 (41.4 - Deliberate 
attempt	to	distract	striker	before	playing	the	ball	or	41.5	–	Deliberate	
attempt of Distraction, Deception or Obstruction of striker after the 
stroke) the No ball will stand.
 21.13 No ball to over-ride Wide
  A call of No ball shall over-ride the call of Wide ball at any time. See 
clauses 22.1 (Judging a Wide) and 22.2 (Call and signal of Wide ball).
 21.14 Ball not dead
  The ball does not become dead on the call of No ball.
 21.15 Penalty for a No ball
  A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of No ball. 
Unless the call is revoked, the penalty shall stand even if a batter is 
dismissed. It shall be in addition to any other runs scored, any boundary 
allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.
 21.16 Runs resulting from a No ball – how scored
  The one run penalty shall be scored as a No ball extra and shall be 
debited against the bowler. If other Penalty runs have been awarded to 
either side these shall be scored as stated in clause 41.18 (Penalty runs). 
Any runs completed by the batters or any boundary allowance shall be 
credited to the striker if the ball has been struck by the bat; otherwise 
they shall also be scored as Byes or Leg byes as appropriate.	 –		inform	the	batters	at	the	wicket	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	
the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action.
 21.3.3 The umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as 
possible after the match to the ICC Match Referee, who shall 
take such action as is considered appropriate against the  
bowler concerned.
 21.4 Bowler throwing towards striker’s end before delivery
  If the bowler throws the ball towards the striker’s end before entering 
the delivery stride, either umpire shall call and signal No ball. See clause 
41.17 (Batters stealing a run).
	 	 However,	the	procedure	stated	in	clause	21.3	of	caution,	informing,	final	
warning, action against the bowler and reporting shall not apply.
 21.5 Fair delivery – the feet
  For a delivery to be fair in respect of the feet, in the delivery stride
 21.5.1 the bowler’s back foot must land within and not touching the 
return crease appertaining to her stated mode of delivery.
 21.5.2 the bowler’s front foot must land with some part of the foot, 
whether grounded or raised
	 –		on	the	same	side	of	the	imaginary	line	joining	the	two	middle	
stumps as the return crease described in clause 21.5.1, and
	 –		behind	the	popping	crease.
	 	 If	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	is	satisfied	that	any	of	these	three	
conditions have not been met, he/she shall call and signal No 
ball. See clause 41.8 (Bowling of deliberate front foot No ball).
 21.6 Bowler breaking wicket in delivering ball
  Either umpire shall call and signal No ball if, other than in an attempt to 
run out the non-striker under clause 41.16, the bowler breaks the wicket 
at any time after the ball comes into play and before completion of the 
stride after the delivery stride. This shall include any clothing or other 
object that falls from her person and breaks the wicket.
 21.7 Ball bouncing more than once, rolling along the ground or pitching 
off the pitch
  The umpire shall call and signal No ball if a ball which he/she considers 
to have been delivered, without having previously touched bat or 
person of the striker,
	 –		bounces	more	than	once
	 –		or	rolls	along	the	ground	before	it	reaches	the	popping	crease.
	 –		or	pitches	wholly	or	partially	off	the	pitch	as	defined	in	clause	6.1	
(Area of pitch) before it reaches the line of the striker’s wicket.
 21.8 Ball coming to rest in front of striker’s wicket
  If a ball delivered by the bowler comes to rest in front of the line of the 
striker’s wicket, without having previously touched the bat or person of 
the striker, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and immediately call 
and signal Dead ball.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.44 8.45 22.2 Call and signal of Wide ball
  If the umpire adjudges a delivery to be a Wide he/she shall call and 
signal Wide ball as soon as the ball passes the striker’s wicket. It shall, 
however, be considered to have been a Wide from the instant that the 
bowler entered her delivery stride, even though it cannot be called 
Wide until it passes the striker’s wicket.
 22.3 Revoking a call of Wide ball
 22.3.1 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if there is then any 
contact between the ball and the striker’s bat or person before 
the	ball	comes	into	contact	with	any	fielder.
 22.3.2 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if a delivery is 
called a No ball. See clause 21.13 (No ball to over-ride Wide).
 22.4 Delivery not a Wide
 22.4.1 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide, if the 
striker, by moving, either causes the ball to pass wide of her, as 
defined	in	clause	22.1.2	or	brings	the	ball	sufficiently	within	reach	
to be able to hit it by means of a normal cricket stroke.
 22.4.2 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide if the 
ball touches the striker’s bat or person, but only as the ball 
passes the striker.
 22.5 Ball not dead
  The ball does not become dead on the call of Wide ball.
 22.6 Penalty for a Wide
  A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of Wide ball. 
Unless the call is revoked, see clause 22.3, this penalty shall stand even 
if a batter is dismissed, and shall be in addition to any other runs scored, 
any boundary allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.
 22.7 Runs resulting from a Wide – how scored
  All runs completed by the batters or a boundary allowance, together 
with the penalty for the Wide, shall be scored as Wide balls. Apart from 
any award of 5 Penalty runs, all runs resulting from a Wide shall be 
debited against the bowler.
 22.8 Wide not to count
  A Wide shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of balls).
 22.9 Out from a Wide
  When Wide ball has been called, neither batter shall be out under 
any of the Playing Conditions except clause 35 (Hit wicket), clause 37 
(Obstructing	the	field),	clause	38	(Run	out)	or	clause	39	(Stumped). 21.17 No ball not to count
  A No ball shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of balls).
 21.18 Out from a No ball
  When No ball has been called, neither batter shall be out under any of 
the Playing Conditions except clause 34 (Hit the ball twice), clause 37 
(Obstructing	the	field)	or	clause	38	(Run	out).
 21.19 Free Hit 
 21.19.1 In addition to the above, the delivery following a No ball called 
(all modes of No ball) shall be a free hit for whichever batter 
is facing it. If the delivery for the free hit is not a legitimate 
delivery (any kind of No ball or a Wide ball) then the next 
delivery will become a free hit for whichever batter is facing it. 
 21.19.2 For any free hit, the striker can be dismissed only under the 
circumstances that apply for a No ball, even if the delivery for 
the free hit is called Wide ball. 
	 21.19.3	 Neither	field	changes	nor	the	exchange	of	individuals	between	
fielding	positions	are	permitted	for	free	hit	deliveries	unless:
 21.19.3.1 There is a change of striker (the provisions of clause 
41.2 shall apply), or
	 21.19.3.2	 The	No	Ball	was	the	result	of	a	fielding	restriction	
breach,	in	which	case	the	field	may	be	changed	to	the	
extent of correcting the breach.
 21.19.4 For clarity, the bowler can change her mode of delivery for the 
free hit delivery. In such circumstances clause 21.1 shall apply.
 21.19.5 The umpires will signal a free hit by (after the normal No Ball 
signal) extending one arm straight upwards and moving it in a 
circular motion.
 22 WIDE BALL
 22.1 Judging a Wide
 22.1.1 If the bowler bowls a ball, not being a No ball, the umpire shall 
adjudge	it	a	Wide	if,	according	to	the	definition	in	clause	22.1.2
 22.1.1.1 the ball passes wide of where the striker is standing 
and which also would have passed wide of the striker 
standing in a normal guard position.
 22.1.1.2 the ball passes above the head height of the striker 
standing upright at the popping crease.
 22.1.2 The ball will be considered as passing wide of the striker unless 
it	is	sufficiently	within	reach	for	her	to	be	able	to	hit	it	with	the	
bat by means of a normal cricket stroke.
 22.1.3 Umpires are instructed to apply very strict and consistent 
interpretation in regard to this clause in order to prevent 
negative bowling wide of the wicket.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.46 8.47 24 FIELDER’S ABSENCE; SUBSTITUTES
	 24.1	 Substitute	fielders
	 24.1.1	 The	umpires	shall	allow	a	substitute	fielder
	 24.1.1.1	 if	they	are	satisfied	that	a	fielder	has	been	injured	or	
become ill and that this occurred during the match, or
 24.1.1.2 for any other wholly acceptable reason.
  In all other circumstances, a substitute is not allowed.
 24.1.2 A substitute shall not bowl or act as captain but may act as 
wicket-keeper only with the consent of the umpires. Note, 
however, clause 42.4.1.
	 24.1.3	 A	nominated	player	may	bowl	or	field	even	though	a	substitute	
has previously acted for her, subject to 24.2 and 24.3.
	 24.1.4	 Squad	members	of	the	fielding	or	batting	team	who	are	not	
playing in the match and who are not acting as substitute 
fielders	shall	be	required	to	wear	a	team	training	bib	whilst	on	
the playing area (including the area between the boundary and 
the perimeter fencing).
	 24.2	 Fielder	absent	or	leaving	the	field	of	play
	 24.2.1	 A	player	going	briefly	outside	the	boundary	while	carrying	out	
any	duties	as	a	fielder	is	not	absent	from	the	field	of	play	nor,	for	
the purposes of this clause, is she to be regarded as having left 
the	field	of	play.
	 24.2.2	 If	a	fielder	fails	to	take	the	field	at	the	start	of	play	or	at	any	later	
time,	or	leaves	the	field	during	play,
 24.2.2.1 an umpire shall be informed of the reason for this absence.
	 24.2.2.2	 she	shall	not	thereafter	come	on	to	the	field	of	play	
during a session of play without the consent of the 
umpire. See clause 24.4. The umpire shall give such 
consent as soon as it is practicable.
	 24.2.3	 If	a	player	is	absent	from	the	field	for	longer	than	8	minutes,	the	
following restrictions shall apply to their future participation in 
the match:
 24.2.3.1 The player shall not be permitted to bowl in the match 
until	she	has	either	been	able	to	field,	or	her	team	has 	
subsequently been batting, for the total length of 
playing time for which the player was absent (hereafter 
referred to as Penalty time). A player’s unexpired 
Penalty time shall be limited to a maximum of 110 
minutes. If any unexpired Penalty time remains at the 
end of an innings, it is carried forward to the next and 
subsequent innings of the match. 23 BYE AND LEG BYE
 23.1 Byes
  If the ball, delivered by the bowler, not being a Wide, passes the striker 
without touching her bat or person, any runs completed by the batters 
from that delivery, or a boundary allowance, shall be credited as Byes 
to the batting side. Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run 
penalty for such a delivery shall be incurred.
 23.2 Leg byes
	 23.2.1	 If	a	ball	delivered	by	the	bowler	first	strikes	the	person	of	the	
striker,	runs	shall	be	scored	only	if	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	
the striker has
  either attempted to play the ball with the bat; or
  tried to avoid being hit by the ball.
	 23.2.2	 If	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	either	of	these	conditions	has	been	
met runs shall be scored as follows.
 23.2.2.1 If there is
  either no subsequent contact with the striker’s bat or 
person, or
  only inadvertent contact with the striker’s bat or person
  any runs completed by the batters or a boundary 
allowance shall be credited to the striker in the case 
of subsequent contact with her bat but otherwise to 
the batting side as in clause 23.2.3.
 23.2.2.2 If the striker wilfully makes a lawful second strike, 
clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once) and 
clause 34.4 (Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck 
more than once) shall apply.
 23.2.3 The runs in clause 23.2.2.1, unless credited to the striker, shall be 
scored as Leg byes.
  Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run penalty for 
the No ball shall be incurred.
 23.3 Leg byes not to be awarded
  If in the circumstance of clause 23.2.1 the umpire considers that neither of 
the conditions therein has been met, then Leg byes shall not be awarded.
  If the ball does not become dead for any other reason, the umpire shall 
call and signal Dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at 
the	completion	of	the	first	run.
  The umpire shall then:
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side;
	 –		return	any	not	out	batter	to	her	original	end;
	 –		signal	No	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable;
	 –		award	any	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	Penalty	runs	
under	clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.48 8.49 24.4 Player returning without permission
	 	 If	a	player	comes	on	to	the	field	of	play	in	contravention	of	clause	24.2.2	
and comes into contact with the ball while it is in play, the ball shall 
immediately become dead.
 –  The umpire shall award 5 Penalty runs to the batting side.
 –  Runs completed by the batters shall be scored together with the run 
in progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
 –  The ball shall not count as one of the over.
 –		The	umpire	shall	inform	the	other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	
side, the batters and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the 
batting side of the reason for this action.
 25 BATTER’S INNINGS
 25.1 Eligibility to act as a batter
  Only a nominated player may bat and, subject to clause 25.3, may do so 
even	though	a	substitute	fielder	has	previously	acted	for	her.
 25.2 Commencement of a batter’s innings
	 	 The	innings	of	the	first	two	batters,	and	that	of	any	new	batter	on	the	
resumption of play after a call of Time, shall commence at the call of 
Play. At any other time, a batter’s innings shall be considered to have 
commenced	when	that	batter	first	steps	onto	the	field	of	play.
 25.3 Restriction on batter commencing an innings
 25.3.1 If a member of the batting side has unserved Penalty time, see 
clause 24.2.7, that player shall not be permitted to bat until that 
Penalty time has been served. However, even if the unserved 
Penalty time has not expired, that player may bat after her side 
has lost 5 wickets.
 25.3.2 A member of the batting side’s Penalty time is served during 
Playing time, in the event of an unscheduled stoppage, the 
stoppage	time	after	the	batter	notifies	an	umpire	in	person	that	
she is able to participate shall count as Penalty time served.
 25.3.3 If any unserved Penalty time remains at the end of a team’s 
innings, it shall be carried forward to the next innings of the 
match if appropriate.
 25.4 Batter retiring
 25.4.1 A batter may retire at any time during her innings when the ball 
is dead. The umpires, before allowing play to proceed, shall be 
informed of the reason for a batter retiring.
 25.4.2 If a batter retires because of illness, injury or any other 
unavoidable cause, that batter is entitled to resume her innings. 
If for any reason this does not happen, that batter is to be 
recorded	as	‘Retired	–	not	out’.
 25.4.3 If a batter retires for any reason other than as in clause 25.4.2, 
the innings of that batter may be resumed only with the 
consent of the opposing captain. If for any reason her innings is 
not	resumed,	that	batter	is	to	be	recorded	as	‘Retired	–	out’. 24.2.3.2 The player shall not be permitted to bat in the 
match until her team’s batting innings has been in 
progress for the length of playing time that is equal 
to the unexpired Penalty time carried forward from 
the previous innings. However, once her side has 
lost	five	wickets	in	its	batting	innings,	she	may	bat	
immediately. If any unexpired penalty time remains at 
the end of that batting innings, it is carried forward to 
the next and subsequent innings of the match.
	 24.2.4	 If	the	player	leaves	the	field	before	having	served	all	of	her	Penalty 	
time, the balance is carried forward as unserved Penalty time.
 24.2.5 On any occasion of absence, the amount of playing time for 
which	the	player	is	off	the	field	shall	be	added	to	any	Penalty	
time that remains unserved, subject to a maximum cumulative 
Penalty time of 110 minutes, and that player shall not bowl until 
all of her Penalty time has been served.
 24.2.6 For the purposes of clauses 24.2.3.1 and 24.2.3.2, playing time 
shall comprise the time play is in progress excluding intervals, 
intervals	between	innings	and	official	drinks	intervals.	For	
clarity, a player’s Penalty time will continue to expire after she is 
dismissed, for the remainder of her team’s batting innings.
 24.2.7 If there is an unscheduled break in play, the stoppage time shall 
count as Penalty time served, provided that,
	 24.2.7.1	 the	fielder	who	was	on	the	field	of	play	at	the	start	of	
the	break	either	takes	the	field	on	the	resumption	of	
play, or her side is now batting.
	 24.2.7.2	 the	fielder	who	was	already	off	the	field	at	the	start	
of	the	break	notifies	an	umpire	in	person	as	soon	as	
she	is	able	to	participate,	and	either	takes	the	field	
on the resumption of play, or her side is now batting. 
Stoppage	time	before	an	umpire	has	been	so	notified	
shall not count towards unserved Penalty time.
 24.2.8 Any unserved Penalty time shall be carried forward into the 
next innings of the match, as applicable.
 24.3 Penalty time not incurred
  A nominated player’s absence will not incur Penalty time if,
 24.3.1 she has suffered an external blow during the match and, as a 
result,	has	justifiably	left	the	field	or	is	unable	to	take	the	field.
 24.3.2 in the opinion of the umpires, the player has been absent or has 
left	the	field	for	other	wholly	acceptable	reasons,	which	shall	
not include illness or internal injury.
	 24.3.3	 the	player	is	absent	from	the	field	for	a	period	of	8	minutes	or	less.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.50 8.51 26.3 Trial run-up
  A bowler is permitted to have a trial run-up provided the umpire is 
satisfied	that	it	will	not	contravene	either	of	clauses	41.9	(Time	wasting	
by	the	fielding	side)	or	41.12	(Fielder	damaging	the	pitch).
 26.4 Penalties for contravention
  All forms of practice are subject to the provisions of clauses 41.3 (The 
match	ball	–	changing	its	condition),	41.9	(Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	
side) and 41.12 (Fielder damaging the pitch).
 26.4.1 If there is a contravention of any of the provisions of clause 26.1 
or 26.2, the umpire shall
	 –		warn	the	player	that	the	practice	is	not	permitted;
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	both	
captains of the reason for this action.
 26.4.1.1 If the contravention is by a batter at the wicket, 
the umpire shall inform the other batter and each 
incoming batter that the warning has been issued. 
The warning shall apply to the team of that player 
throughout the match.
 26.4.2 If during the match there is any further contravention by any 
player of that team, the umpire shall
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	opposing	side;
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire,	the	scorers	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, both captains, and, if the contravention is during 
play, the batters at the wicket.
 27 THE WICKET-KEEPER
 27.1 Protective equipment
	 	 The	wicket-keeper	is	the	only	fielder	permitted	to	wear	gloves	and 	
external leg guards. If these are worn, they are to be regarded as part 
of her person for the purposes of clause 28.2 (Fielding the ball). If by the 
wicket-keeper’s actions and positioning when the ball comes into play 
it is apparent to the umpires that she will not be able to carry out the 
normal duties of a wicket-keeper, she shall forfeit this right and also the 
right to be recognised as a wicket-keeper for the purposes of clauses 33.2 
(A fair catch), 39 (Stumped), 28.1 (Protective equipment), 28.4 (Limitation 
of	on-side	fielders)	and	28.5	(Fielders	not	to	encroach	on	pitch).
 27.2 Gloves
 27.2.1 If, as permitted under clause 27.1, the wicket-keeper wears 
gloves,	they	shall	have	no	webbing	between	the	fingers	except	
joining	index	finger	and	thumb,	where	webbing	may	be	inserted	
as a means of support.
 27.2.2 If used, the webbing shall be a single piece of non-stretch 
material which, although it may have facing material attached, 
shall have no reinforcements or tucks. 25.4.4 If after retiring a batter resumes her innings, subject to the 
requirements of clauses 25.4.2 and 25.4.3, it shall be only at the 
fall of a wicket or the retirement of another batter.
 25.5 Runners
  Runners shall not be permitted.
 26 PRACTICE ON THE FIELD
 26.1 Practice on the pitch or the rest of the square
 26.1.1 There shall not be any practice on the pitch at any time.
 26.1.2 There shall not be any practice on the rest of the square at any 
time except with the approval of the umpires.
 26.1.2.1 If approved by the umpires, the use of the square for 
practice on any day of any match will be restricted to 
any	netted	practice	area	or	bowling	strips	specifically	
prepared on the edge of the square for that purpose.
 26.1.2.2 Bowling practice on the bowling strips referred to 
above shall also be permitted during the interval 
(and change of innings if not the interval) unless the 
umpires consider that, in the prevailing conditions 
of ground and weather, it will be detrimental to the 
surface of the square.
	 26.2	 Practice	on	the	outfield
 26.2.1 On any day of the match, all forms of practice are permitted on 
the	outfield
	 –		before	the	start	of	play
	 –		after	the	close	of	play,	and
	 –		during	the	interval	or	between	innings
	 	 providing	the	umpires	are	satisfied	that	such	practice	will	not	
cause	significant	deterioration	in	the	condition	of	the	outfield.
 26.2.2 Between the call of Play and the call of Time, practice shall be 
permitted	on	the	outfield,	providing	that	all	of	the	following	
conditions are met:
	 –		only	the	fielders	as	defined	in	paragraph	7	of	Appendix	A	
participate in such practice.
	 –		no	ball	other	than	the	match	ball	is	used	for	this	practice.
	 –		no	bowling	practice	takes	place	in	the	area	between	the	square 	
and the boundary in a direction parallel to the match pitch.
	 –		the	umpires	are	satisfied	that	it	will	not	contravene	either	
of clauses 41.3 (The match ball changing its condition) or 41.9 
(Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	side).
	 	 Bowling	a	ball,	using	a	short	run	up	to	a	player	in	the	outfield	is	
not to be regarded as bowling practice but shall be subject to 
the other conditions in this clause.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.52 8.53 28 THE FIELDER
 28.1 Protective equipment
	 	 No	fielder	other	than	the	wicket-keeper	shall	be	permitted	to	wear	
gloves or external leg guards. In addition, protection for the hand or 
fingers	may	be	worn	only	with	the	consent	of	the	umpires.
 28.2 Fielding the ball
	 28.2.1	 A	fielder	may	field	the	ball	with	any	part	of	her	person	(see	
paragraph 12 of Appendix A), except as in clause 28.2.1.2. 
However,	she	will	be	deemed	to	have	fielded	the	ball	illegally	if,	
while the ball is in play she wilfully
	 28.2.1.1	 uses	anything	other	than	part	of	her	person	to	field	
the ball.
 28.2.1.2 extends her clothing with her hands and uses this to 
field	the	ball.
 28.2.1.3 discards a piece of clothing, equipment or any other 
object which subsequently makes contact with the ball.
	 28.2.2	 It	is	not	illegal	fielding	if	the	ball	in	play	makes	contact	with	a	
piece of clothing, equipment or any other object which has 
accidentally	fallen	from	the	fielder’s	person.
	 28.2.3	 If	a	fielder	illegally	fields	the	ball,	the	ball	shall	immediately	
become dead and
	 –		the	penalty	for	a	No	ball	or	a	Wide	shall	stand.
	 –		any	runs	completed	by	the	batters	shall	be	credited	to	the	
batting side, together with the run in progress if the batters 
had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
	 –		the	ball	shall	not	count	as	one	of	the	over.
 In addition the umpire shall:
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	and	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
of the reason for this action.
	 –		inform	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	the	captain	of	
the batting side of what has occurred.
	 28.3	 Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side
	 28.3.1	 Protective	helmets,	when	not	in	use	by	fielders,	may	not	be	
placed on the ground, above the surface except behind the 
wicket-keeper and in line with both sets of stumps.
 28.3.2 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described in 
clause 28.3.1,
 28.3.2.1 the ball shall become dead
  and, subject to clause 28.3.3,
 28.3.2.2 an award of 5 Penalty runs shall be made to the 
batting side; 27.2.3 The top edge of the webbing shall not protrude beyond the 
straight	line	joining	the	top	of	the	index	finger	to	the	top	of	the	
thumb and shall be taut when a hand wearing the glove has the 
thumb fully extended. See paragraph 3 of Appendix B.
 27.3 Position of wicket-keeper
 27.3.1 The wicket-keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket at the 
striker’s end from the moment the ball comes into play until a 
ball delivered by the bowler
  touches the bat or person of the striker, or
  passes the wicket at the striker’s end, or
  the striker attempts a run.
 27.3.2 In the event of the wicket-keeper contravening this clause, 
the striker’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball as soon as 
applicable after the delivery of the ball.
 27.4 Movement by wicket-keeper
 27.4.1 After the ball comes into play and before it reaches the striker, 
it	is	unfair	if	the	wicket-keeper	significantly	alters	her	position	in	
relation to the striker’s wicket, except for the following:
 27.4.1.1 movement of a few paces forward for a slower 
delivery, unless in so doing it brings her within reach 
of the wicket.
 27.4.1.2 lateral movement in response to the direction in 
which the ball has been delivered.
 27.4.1.3 movement in response to the stroke that the striker 
is playing or that her actions suggest she intends to 
play. However the provisions of clause 27.3 shall apply.
 27.4.2 In the event of unfair movement by the wicket-keeper, either 
umpire shall call and signal Dead ball.
 27.5 Restriction on actions of wicket-keeper
  If, in the opinion of either umpire, the wicket-keeper interferes with the 
striker’s right to play the ball and to guard her wicket, clause 20.4.2.6 
(Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball) shall apply.
  If, however, either umpire considers that the interference by the wicket-
keeper was wilful, then clause 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract 
striker) shall also apply.
 27.6 Interference with wicket-keeper by striker
  If, in playing at the ball or in the legitimate defence of her wicket, the 
striker interferes with the wicket-keeper, she shall not be out except as 
provided for in clause 37.3 (Obstructing a ball from being caught).ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.54 8.55	 28.6	 Movement	by	any	fielder	other	than	the	wicket-keeper
	 28.6.1	 Any	movement	by	any	fielder,	excluding	the	wicket-keeper,	
after the ball comes into play and before the ball reaches the 
striker, is unfair except for the following:
 28.6.1.1 minor adjustments to stance or position in relation to 
the striker’s wicket.
	 28.6.1.2	 movement	by	any	fielder,	other	than	a	close	fielder,	
towards the striker or the striker’s wicket that does 
not	significantly	alter	the	position	of	the	fielder.
	 28.6.1.3	 movement	by	any	fielder	in	response	to	the	stroke	
that the striker is playing or that her actions suggest 
she intends to play.
	 28.6.2	 In	all	circumstances	clause	28.4	(Limitation	of	on	side	fielders)	
shall apply.
 28.6.3 In the event of such unfair movement, either umpire shall call 
and signal Dead ball.
 28.6.4 Note also the provisions of clause 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to 
distract striker). See also clause 27.4 (Movement by wicket-keeper).
	 28.7	 Restrictions	on	the	placement	of	fielders	
 28.7.1 In addition to the restrictions contained in clause 28.4 above, 
further	fielding	restrictions	shall	apply	to	certain	overs	in	each 	
innings.	The	nature	of	such	fielding	restrictions	 and	the	overs	during	
which they shall apply are set out in the following paragraphs. 
	 28.7.2	 The	following	fielding	restrictions	shall	apply:	
	 28.7.2.1	 Two	semi-circles	shall	be	drawn	on	the	field	of	play.	
The semi-circles shall have as their centre the middle 
stump at either end of the pitch. The radius of each of 
the semi-circles shall be 25.15 yards (23 metres). The 
semi-circles shall be linked by two parallel straight 
lines	drawn	on	the	field.	(Refer	to	paragraph	2	of	
Appendix	C).	The	fielding	restriction	areas	should	be	
marked	by	continuous	painted	white	lines	or	‘dots’	at	
5	yard	(4.57	metres)	intervals,	each	‘dot’	to	be	covered	
by a white plastic or rubber (but not metal) disc 
measuring 7 inches (18 cm) in diameter. 
 28.7.2.2 Subject to the provisions of 28.7.2.4 below, the 
Powerplay Overs shall apply for 15 overs per innings to 
be taken as follows:
	 28.7.2.2.1	 Powerplay	1	–	(block	of	10	overs	for	an	
uninterrupted match) no more than two 
(2)	fielders	shall	be	permitted	outside	this	
fielding	restriction	area.	In	an	innings	of	50	
overs, these are overs 1 to 10 inclusive.  28.3.2.3 any runs completed by the batters before the 
ball strikes the protective helmet shall be scored, 
together with the run in progress if the batters had 
already crossed at the instant of the ball striking the 
protective helmet.
 28.3.3 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described in 
clause 28.3.1, unless the circumstances of clause 23.3 (Leg byes 
not to be awarded) or clause 34 (Hit the ball twice), apply, the 
umpire shall:
	 –		permit	the	batters’s	runs	as	in	clause	28.3.2.3	to	be	scored
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	as	in	clause	28.3.2.2
	 –		award	any	other	Penalty	runs	due	to	the	batting	side.
 28.3.4 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described 
in clause 28.3.1, and the circumstances of clause 23.3 (Leg byes 
not to be awarded) or clause 34 (Hit the ball twice) apply, the 
umpire shall:
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side
	 –		return	any	not	out	batter	to	her	original	end
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable
	 –		award	any	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	Penalty	
runs under clause 28.3.2.
	 28.4	 Limitation	of	on	side	fielders
	 28.4.1	 At	the	instant	of	delivery,	there	may	not	be	more	than	5	fielders	
on the leg side.
 28.4.2 At the instant of the bowler’s delivery there shall not be more 
than	two	fielders,	other	than	the	wicket-keeper,	behind	the	
popping	crease	on	the	on	side.	A	fielder	will	be	considered	to	
be behind the popping crease unless the whole of her person 
whether grounded or in the air is in front of this line.
	 28.4.3	 In	the	event	of	infringement	of	this	clause	by	any	fielder,	the	
striker’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball.
 28.5 Fielders not to encroach on pitch
  While the ball is in play and until the ball has made contact with the 
striker’s	bat	or	person,	or	has	passed	the	striker’s	bat,	no	fielder,	other	
than the bowler, may have any part of her person grounded on or 
extended over the pitch.
	 	 In	the	event	of	infringement	of	this	clause	by	any	fielder	other	than	the	
wicket-keeper, the bowler’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball as 
soon as possible after delivery of the ball. Note, however, clause 27.3 
(Position of wicket-keeper).ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.56 8.57 28.7.2.5 Each block of Powerplay Overs must commence at 
the start of an over.
  Illustrations:
 a) If play is interrupted during an innings and 
the table above applies, the Powerplay takes 
immediate effect. For the avoidance of doubt 
this applies even if the interruption has occurred 
mid-over.
  A match starts as 50 overs, is interrupted after 
12	overs	and	reduced	to	43	overs.	(The	first	10	
overs have been Powerplays (PP); the next two 
were not.) The new PP allocation is 9+4, so there 
are 3 overs left for the batting side. These must 
start no later than the 38th over in order to be 
completed by the 40th over.
	 b)	 If	play	is	interrupted	during	the	first	Powerplay	
and on resumption the overs required to be 
bowled in that Powerplay have already been 
exceeded, then the second Powerplay will be 
assumed to have been taken immediately and 
will continue until it is completed. 
  A 50 over innings is interrupted after 9.3 overs, 
and on resumption has been reduced to 43 overs. 
Powerplay overs are 9+4. 2nd Powerplay is in 
progress with 0.3 out of the 4 overs completed, 
i.e.	it	covers	overs	10	to	13.	The	fielding	restrictions	
relating to the second Powerplay take immediate 
effect on resumption.
 c) If following an interruption, on resumption the 
total number of Powerplay Overs for the innings 
has already been exceeded, then there will be 
no further Powerplay deliveries bowled in the 
innings. Note that this is the only circumstance 
under which the Powerplay status can be 
changed during an over.
  A 45 over innings is interrupted after 8.3 overs, 
and on resumption has been reduced to 28 
overs. Powerplay overs are 5+3. All Powerplay 
overs have been completed. Non-Powerplay 
restrictions take effect immediately and do not 
need to wait until the end of the over.
 d) If following an interruption while a Powerplay is 
not in progress, it is found on resumption that 
the recalculated number of Powerplay Overs 
remaining exceeds the number of overs to be 
bowled in the innings, then the Powerplays will 
commence at the start of the next over, with 
fewer than the scheduled number of Powerplay 
Overs being bowled in the innings.	 28.7.2.2.2	 Powerplay	2	–	(block	of	5	overs	for	an	
uninterrupted match) no more than three 
(3)	fielders	shall	be	permitted	outside	this	
fielding	restriction	area.	It	shall	be	taken	at	
the discretion of either of the batters at  
the wicket.
 28.7.2.2.3 In an innings of scheduled duration of 
between 41 and 50 overs, it may not be 
completed later than the 40th over. (No 
equivalent restriction applies to innings of 
shorter scheduled duration.)
 28.7.2.2.4 A batter must nominate her team’s 
Powerplay no later than the moment at 
which the umpire reaches the stumps at the 
bowler’s end for the start of the next over.
 28.7.2.2.5 Once a batter has nominated a Powerplay, 
the decision cannot be reversed.
 28.7.2.2.6 Should the batting side choose not to 
exercise their discretion, their Powerplay 
Overs will automatically commence at the 
latest available point in the innings (e.g. 
in a 50 over innings with one unclaimed 
Powerplay, this will begin at the start of the 
36th over).
 28.7.2.3 During non Powerplay overs, no more than four 
(4)	fielders	shall	be	permitted	outside	this	fielding	
restriction area.
 28.7.2.4 In circumstances when the number of overs of 
the batting team is reduced, the number of overs 
within each phase of the innings shall be reduced 
in accordance with the table below. For the sake of 
clarity, it should be noted that the table shall apply to 
both the 1st and 2nd innings of the match.
INNINGS  
DURATIONPOWER PLAY  
1POWER PLAY  
2POWER PLAY  
2
20	–	21 4 2 6
22	–	24 5 2 7
25	–	28 5 3 8
29	–	31 6 3 9
32	–	34 7 3 10
35	–	38 7 4 11
39	–	41 8 4 12
42	–	44 9 4 13
45	–	48 9 5 14
49 10 5 15ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.58 8.59	 29.1.1.6	 The	wicket	is	also	put	down	if	a	fielder	strikes	or	pulls	
a stump out of the ground as clause 29.1.1.5.
 29.1.2 The disturbance of a bail, whether temporary or not, shall not 
constitute its complete removal from the top of the stumps, but 
if a bail in falling lodges between two of the stumps this shall be 
regarded as complete removal.
 29.2 One bail off
	 	 If	one	bail	is	off,	it	shall	be	sufficient	for	the	purpose	of	putting	the	
wicket down to remove the remaining bail or to strike or pull any of the 
three stumps out of the ground, in any of the ways stated in clause 29.1.
 29.3 Remaking wicket
  If a wicket is broken or put down while the ball is in play, it shall not be 
remade by an umpire until the ball is dead. See clause 20 (Dead ball). 
Any	fielder	may,	however,	while	the	ball	is	in	play,
	 –		replace	a	bail	or	bails	on	top	of	the	stumps.
	 –		put	back	one	or	more	stumps	into	the	ground	where	the	wicket	
originally stood.
 29.4 Dispensing with bails
  If the umpires have agreed to dispense with bails in accordance with 
clause 8.4 (Dispensing with bails), it is for the umpire concerned to 
decide whether or not the wicket has been put down.
 29.4.1 After a decision to play without bails, the wicket has been put 
down	if	the	umpire	concerned	is	satisfied	that	the	wicket	has 	
been struck by the ball, by the striker’s bat, person or items of her 
clothing or equipment as described in clauses 29.1.1.2, 29.1.1.3 or 
29.1.1.4,	or	by	a	fielder	in	the	manner	described	in	clause	29.1.1.5.
 29.4.2 If the wicket has already been broken or put down, clause 
29.4.1 shall apply to any stump or stumps still in the ground. 
Any	fielder	may	replace	a	stump	or	stumps,	in	accordance	with	
clause 29.3, in order to have an opportunity of putting the 
wicket down.
 30 BATTER OUT OF HER GROUND
 30.1 When out of her ground
 30.1.1 A batter shall be considered to be out of her ground unless 
some part of her person or bat is grounded behind the popping 
crease at that end.
 30.1.2 However, a batter shall not be considered to be out of her 
ground if, in running or diving towards her ground and beyond, 
and having grounded some part of her person or bat beyond 
the popping crease, there is subsequent loss of contact 
between the ground and any part of her person or bat, or 
between the bat and person.  A 41 over innings in which only the 1st Powerplay 
has been taken is interrupted after 35.1 overs and 
reduced to 39 overs. Powerplay overs are still 8+4. 
Powerplays automatically resume for the start 
of the next over, but only 11 of the 12 scheduled 
Powerplay overs can be bowled in the innings. 
 e) If following an interruption while a Powerplay is 
not in progress, it is found on resumption that 
the recalculated number of Powerplay overs 
remaining exceeds the number of overs to be 
bowled in the innings, then the Powerplays will 
commence at the start of the next over, with 
fewer than the scheduled number of Powerplay 
overs being bowled in the innings.
  A 50 over innings in which only the 1st Powerplay 
has been taken is interrupted after 29.1 overs and 
reduced to 32 overs. Powerplay overs are 7+3+3. 
Powerplays automatically resume for the start 
of the next over, but only 12 of the 13 scheduled 
Powerplay overs can be bowled in the innings.
 28.7.2.6 At the commencement of the second block of 
Powerplay overs, the umpire shall signal such 
commencement to the scorers by rotating his/her arm 
in a large circle. 
 28.7.2.7 The scoreboard shall indicate the whenever 
Powerplay overs are being bowled, along with the 
number of overs remaining in the current block of 
Powerplay overs. 
 28.7.2.8 In the event of an infringement of any of the above 
fielding	restrictions,	the	square	leg	umpire	shall	call	
and	signal	‘No	Ball’.
 29 THE WICKET IS DOWN
 29.1 Wicket put down
 29.1.1 The wicket is put down if a bail is completely removed from the 
top of the stumps, or a stump is struck out of the ground,
 29.1.1.1 by the ball,
 29.1.1.2 by the striker’s bat if held or by any part of the bat 
that she is holding,
 29.1.1.3 for the purpose of this clause only, by the striker’s 
bat not in hand, or by any part of the bat which has 
become detached,
 29.1.1.4 by the striker’s person or by any part of her clothing or 
equipment becoming detached from her person,
	 29.1.1.5	 by	a	fielder	with	her	hand	or	arm,	providing	that	the	
ball is held in the hand or hands so used, or in the 
hand of the arm so used.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.60 8.61 31.5 Answering appeals
  The striker’s end umpire shall answer all appeals arising out of any of clauses 
35 (Hit wicket), 39 (Stumped) or 38 (Run out) when this occurs at the 
wicket-keeper’s end. The bowler’s end umpire shall answer all other appeals.
  When an appeal is made, each umpire shall answer on any matter that 
falls within his/her jurisdiction.
  When a batter has been given Not out, either umpire may answer an 
appeal, made in accordance with clause 31.3, if it is on a further matter 
and is within his/her jurisdiction.
 31.6 Consultation by umpires
  Each umpire shall answer appeals on matters within his/her own 
jurisdiction. If an umpire is doubtful about any point that the other 
umpire may have been in a better position to see, he/she shall consult 
the latter on this point of fact and shall then give the decision. If, after 
consultation, there is still doubt remaining, the decision shall be Not out.
 31.7 Batter leaving the wicket under a misapprehension
	 	 An	umpire	shall	intervene	if	satisfied	that	a	batter,	not	having	been	
given out, has left the wicket under a misapprehension of being out. The 
umpire intervening shall call and signal Dead ball to prevent any further 
action	by	the	fielding	side	and	shall	recall	the	batter.
  A batter may be recalled at any time up to the instant when the ball comes 
into	play	for	the	next	delivery,	unless	it	is	the	final	wicket	of	the	innings,	in 	
which	case	it	should	be	up	to	the	instant	when	the	umpires	leave	the	field.
 31.8 Withdrawal of an appeal
	 	 The	captain	of	the	fielding	side	may	withdraw	an	appeal	only	after	
obtaining the consent of the umpire within whose jurisdiction the 
appeal falls. If such consent is given, the umpire concerned shall, if 
applicable, revoke the decision and recall the batter.
  The withdrawal of an appeal must be before the instant when the 
ball comes into play for the next delivery or, if the innings has been 
completed,	the	instant	when	the	umpires	leave	the	field.
 32 BOWLED
 32.1 Out Bowled
 32.1.1 The striker is out Bowled if her wicket is put down by a ball 
delivered	by	the	bowler,	not	being	a	No	ball,	even	if	it	first	
touches the striker’s bat or person.
 32.1.2 However, the striker shall not be out Bowled if before striking 
the wicket the ball has been in contact with any other player 
or an umpire. The striker will, however, be subject to clauses 37 
(Obstructing	the	field),	38	(Run	out)	and	39	(Stumped).
 32.2 Bowled to take precedence
  The striker is out Bowled if her wicket is put down as in clause 32.1, even 
though a decision against her for any other method of dismissal would 
be	justified. 30.2 Which is a batter’s ground
 30.2.1 If only one batter is within a ground, it is her ground and will 
remain so even if she is later joined there by the other batter.
 30.2.2 If both batters are in the same ground and one of them 
subsequently leaves it, the ground belongs to the batter who 
remains in it.
 30.2.3 If there is no batter in either ground, then each ground belongs 
to whichever batter is nearer to it, or, if the batters are level, 
to whichever batter was nearer to it immediately prior to their 
drawing level.
 30.2.4 If a ground belongs to one batter then the other ground 
belongs to the other batter, irrespective of her position.
 30.3 Position of non-striker
  The non-striker, when standing at the bowler’s end, should be 
positioned on the opposite side of the wicket to that from which the 
ball is being delivered, unless a request to do otherwise is granted by 
the umpire.
 31 APPEALS
 31.1 Umpire not to give batter out without an appeal
  Neither umpire shall give a batter out, even though she may be out 
under	these	Playing	Conditions,	unless	appealed	to	by	a	fielder.	This	
shall not debar a batter who is out under these Playing Conditions 
from leaving the wicket without an appeal having been made. Note, 
however, the provisions of clause 31.7.
 31.2 Batter dismissed
  A batter is dismissed if she is
  either given out by an umpire, on appeal
  or out under these Playing Conditions and leaves the wicket as in clause 31.1.
 31.3 Timing of appeals
  For an appeal to be valid, it must be made before the bowler begins her 
run-up or, if there is no run-up, her bowling action to deliver the next 
ball, and before Time has been called.
  The call of Over does not invalidate an appeal made prior to the start of 
the following over, provided Time has not been called. See clauses 12.2 
(Call of Time) and 17.2 (Start of an over).
 31.4 Appeal “How’s That?”
  An appeal “How’s That?” covers all ways of being out.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.62 8.63 34 HIT THE BALL TWICE
 34.1 Out Hit the ball twice
 34.1.1 The striker is out Hit the ball twice if, while the ball is in play, it 
strikes any part of her person or is struck by her bat and, before 
the	ball	has	been	touched	by	a	fielder,	the	striker	wilfully	strikes	
it again with her bat or person, other than a hand not holding 
the bat, except for the sole purpose of guarding her wicket. See 
clause	34.3	and	clause	37	(Obstructing	the	field).
	 34.1.2	 For	the	purpose	of	this	clause	‘struck’	or	‘strike’	shall	include	
contact with the person of the striker.
 34.2 Not out Hit the ball twice
  The striker will not be out under this clause if she
 34.2.1 strikes the ball a second or subsequent time in order to return 
the	ball	to	any	fielder.	
  Note, however, the provisions of clause 37.4 (Returning the ball 
to	a	fielder).
	 34.2.2	 wilfully	strikes	the	ball	after	it	has	touched	a	fielder.	Note,	
however	the	provisions	of	clause	37.1	(Out	Obstructing	the	field).
 34.3 Ball lawfully struck more than once
  The striker may, solely in order to guard her wicket and before the 
ball	has	been	touched	by	a	fielder,	lawfully	strike	the	ball	a	second	or	
subsequent time with the bat, or with any part of her person other than 
a hand not holding the bat. The striker may guard her wicket even if the 
delivery is a No ball.
  However, the striker may not prevent the ball from being caught by 
striking the ball more than once in defence of her wicket. See clause 37.3 
(Obstructing a ball from being caught).
 34.4 Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once
  When the ball is lawfully struck more than once, as permitted in clause 
34.3, if the ball does not become dead for any reason, the umpire shall 
call and signal Dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at 
the	completion	of	the	first	run.	However,	the	umpire	shall	delay	the	call	
of Dead ball to allow the opportunity for a catch to be completed.
  The umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side
	 –		return	any	not	out	batter	to	her	original	end
	 –		signal	No	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable,	and
	 –		award	any	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	Penalty	runs	
under	clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 34.5 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket. 33 CAUGHT
 33.1 Out Caught
  The striker is out Caught if a ball delivered by the bowler, not being a No 
ball, touches her bat without having previously been in contact with any 
fielder,	and	is	subsequently	held	by	a	fielder	as	a	fair	catch,	as	described	
in clauses 33.2 and 33.3, before it touches the ground.
 33.2 A fair catch
 33.2.1 A catch will be fair only if, in every case
  either the ball, at any time
	 	 or	any	fielder	in	contact	with	the	ball,
  is not grounded beyond the boundary before the catch is 
completed. Note clauses 19.4 (Ball grounded beyond the 
boundary) and 19.5 (Fielder grounded beyond the boundary).
 33.2.2 Furthermore, a catch will be fair if any of the following 
conditions applies:
	 33.2.2.1	 the	ball	is	held	in	the	hand	or	hands	of	a	fielder,	even	
if the hand holding the ball is touching the ground, 
or is hugged to the body, or lodges in the external 
protective	equipment	worn	by	a	fielder,	or	lodges	
accidentally	in	a	fielder’s	clothing.
	 33.2.2.2	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	been	lawfully	
struck more than once by the striker, but only if it has 
not	been	grounded	since	it	was	first	struck.	See	clause	
34 (Hit the ball twice).
	 33.2.2.3	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	touched	the	
wicket,	an	umpire,	another	fielder	or	the	other	batter.
	 33.2.2.4	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	crossed	the	
boundary in the air, provided that the conditions in 
clause 33.2.1 are met.
 33.2.2.5 the ball is caught off an obstruction within the boundary 
that is not designated a boundary by the umpires.
 33.3 Making a catch
	 	 The	act	of	making	a	catch	shall	start	from	the	time	when	the	ball	first	
comes	into	contact	with	a	fielder’s	person	and	shall	end	when	a	fielder	
obtains complete control over both the ball and her own movement.
 33.4 No runs to be scored
  If the striker is dismissed Caught, runs from that delivery completed by 
the batters before the completion of the catch shall not be scored but 
any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall stand. Clause 18.12 
(Batter returning to the wicket she has left) shall apply from the instant 
of the completion of the catch.
 33.5 Caught to take precedence
  If the criteria of clause 33.1 are met and the striker is not out Bowled, 
then she is out Caught, even though a decision against either batter for 
another	method	of	dismissal	would	be	justified.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.64 8.65 36.1.3 the ball not having previously touched her bat, the striker 
intercepts the ball, either full-pitch or after pitching, with any 
part of her person
 36.1.4 the point of impact, even if above the level of the bails,
  either is between wicket and wicket
  or if the striker has made no genuine attempt to play the ball 
with the bat, is
  between wicket and wicket or outside the line of the off stump.
 36.1.5 but for the interception, the ball would have hit the wicket.
 36.2 Interception of the ball
 36.2.1 In assessing points of impact in clauses 36.1.3, 36.1.4 and 36.1.5, 
only	the	first	interception	is	to	be	considered.
 36.2.2 In assessing clause 36.1.3, if the bowler’s end umpire is not 
satisfied	that	the	ball	intercepted	the	batter’s	person	before	it	
touched the bat, the batter shall be given Not out.
 36.2.3 In assessing clause 36.1.5, it is to be assumed that the path 
of the ball before interception would have continued after 
interception, irrespective of whether the ball might have 
pitched subsequently or not.
 36.3 Off side of wicket
  The off side of the striker’s wicket shall be determined by the striker’s 
stance at the moment the ball comes into play for that delivery. See 
paragraph 13 of Appendix A.
 37 OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD
	 37.1	 Out	Obstructing	the	field
	 37.1.1	 Either	batter	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	except	in	the	
circumstances of clause 37.2, and while the ball is in play, she 
wilfully	attempts	to	obstruct	or	distract	the	fielding	side	by	
word or action. See also clause 34 (Hit the ball twice).
	 37.1.2	 The	striker	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	except	in	the	circumstances 	
of clause 37.2, in the act of receiving a ball delivered by the bowler, 
she wilfully strikes the ball with a hand not holding the bat. This will 
apply	whether	it	is	the	first	strike	or	a	second	or	subsequent	strike. 	
The act of receiving the ball shall extend both to playing at the ball 
and to striking the ball more than once in defence of her wicket.
 37.1.3 This clause will apply whether or not No ball is called.
 37.1.4 For the avoidance of doubt, if an umpire feels that a batter, 
in	running	between	the	wickets,	has	significantly	changed	
her direction without probable cause and thereby obstructed 
a	fielder’s	attempt	to	effect	a	run	out,	the	batter	should,	on	
appeal,	be	given	out,	obstructing	the	field.	It	shall	not	be	
relevant whether a run out would have occurred or not.
  If the change of direction involves the batter crossing the pitch, 
clause 41.14 shall also apply.
  See also paragraph 2.2 of Appendix D. 35 HIT WICKET
 35.1 Out Hit wicket
 35.1.1 The striker is out Hit wicket if, after the bowler has entered 
the delivery stride and while the ball is in play, her wicket is 
put down by either the striker’s bat or person as described 
in clauses 29.1.1.2 to 29.1.1.4 (Wicket put down) in any of the 
following circumstances:
 35.1.1.1 in the course of any action taken by her in preparing 
to receive or in receiving a delivery,
	 35.1.1.2	 in	setting	off	for	the	first	run	immediately	after	
playing or playing at the ball,
 35.1.1.3 if no attempt is made to play the ball, in setting off 
for	the	first	run,	providing	that	in	the	opinion	of	the	
umpire this is immediately after the striker has had 
the opportunity of playing the ball,
 35.1.1.4 in lawfully making a second or further stroke for the 
purpose of guarding her wicket within the provisions 
of clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).
 35.1.2 If the striker puts her wicket down in any of the ways described 
in clauses 29.1.1.2 to 29.1.1.4 before the bowler has entered the 
delivery stride, either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball.
 35.2 Not out Hit wicket
  The striker is not out under this clause should her wicket be put down in 
any of the ways referred to in clause 35.1 if any of the following applies:
	 –		it	occurs	after	the	striker	has	completed	any	action	in	receiving	the	
delivery, other than in clauses 35.1.1.2 to 35.1.1.4.
	 –		it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	in	the	act	of	running,	other	than	setting	
off	immediately	for	the	first	run.
	 –		it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	trying	to	avoid	being	run	out	or	stumped.
	 –		it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	trying	to	avoid	a	throw	in	at	any	time.
	 –		the	bowler	after	entering	the	delivery	stride	does	not	deliver	the	ball.	
In this case either umpire shall immediately call and signal Dead ball. 
See clause 20.4 (Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball).
	 –		the	delivery	is	a	No	ball.
 36 LEG BEFORE WICKET
 36.1 Out LBW
  The striker is out LBW if all the circumstances set out in clauses 36.1.1 to 
36.1.5 apply.
 36.1.1 The bowler delivers a ball, not being a No ball
 36.1.2 the ball, if it is not intercepted full-pitch, pitches in line between 
wicket and wicket or on the off side of the striker’s wicketICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.66 8.67 38 RUN OUT
 38.1 Out Run out
  Either batter is out Run out, except as in clause 38.2, if, at any time while 
the ball is in play,
  she is out of her ground
	 	 and	her	wicket	is	fairly	put	down	by	the	action	of	a	fielder
  even though No ball has been called, except in the circumstances of 
clause 38.2.2.2, and whether or not a run is being attempted.
 38.2 Batter not out Run out
 38.2.1 A batter is not out Run out in the circumstances of clauses 
38.2.1.1 or 38.2.1.2.
 38.2.1.1 She has been within her ground and has subsequently 
left it to avoid injury, when the wicket is put down.
  Note also the provisions of clause 30.1.2 (When out of 
her ground).
 38.2.1.2 The ball delivered by the bowler has not made 
contact	with	a	fielder,	before	the	wicket	is	put	down.
 38.2.2 The striker is not out Run out in any of the circumstances in 
clauses 38.2.2.1 and 38.2.2.2.
 38.2.2.1 She is out Stumped. See clause 39.1.2 (Out Stumped).
 38.2.2.2 No ball has been called
  and she is out of her ground not attempting a run
  and the wicket is fairly put down by the wicket-
keeper	without	the	intervention	of	another	fielder.
 38.3 Which batter is out
  The batter out in the circumstances of clause 38.1 is the one whose 
ground is at the end where the wicket is put down. See clause 30.2 
(Which is a batter’s ground).
 38.4 Runs scored
  If either batter is dismissed Run out, the run in progress when the wicket 
is put down shall not be scored, but any runs completed by the batters 
shall stand, together with any runs for penalties awarded to either side. 
See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded for penalties) and 18.8 (Runs scored 
when a batter is dismissed).
 38.5 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.	 37.2	 Not	out	Obstructing	the	field
	 	 A	batter	shall	not	be	out	Obstructing	the	field	if
  obstruction or distraction is accidental, or
  obstruction is in order to avoid injury, or
  in the case of the striker, she makes a second or subsequent strike to 
guard her wicket lawfully as in clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than 
once). However, see clause 37.3.
 37.3 Obstructing a ball from being caught
 37.3.1    If the delivery is not a No ball, the striker is out Obstructing the 
field	if	wilful	obstruction	or	distraction	by	either	batter	prevents	
the striker being out caught. .  
 37.3.2   Clause 37.3.1 shall apply even  if an obstruction is caused by the 
striker in lawfully guarding her wicket under the provision of 
Clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).
 37.3.3   If an obstruction or distraction takes place from a No ball then 
the batter who caused the obstruction or distraction will be out 
Obstructing	the	field.	
 37.3.4   Clause 37.3.3 shall not apply if the striker obstructs while 
instinctively defending her wicket with a lawful second strike
	 37.4	 Returning	the	ball	to	a	fielder
	 	 Either	batter	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	at	any	time	while	the	ball	is	
in	play	and,	without	the	consent	of	a	fielder,	she	uses	the	bat	or	any	part	
of	her	person	to	return	the	ball	to	any	fielder.
 37.5 Runs scored
	 	 When	either	batter	is	dismissed	Obstructing	the	field,
 37.5.1 unless the obstruction prevents a catch from being made, any 
runs completed by the batters before the offence shall be 
scored, together with any runs awarded for penalties to either 
side. See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded for penalties) and 18.8 
(Runs scored when a batter is dismissed).
 37.5.2 if the obstruction prevents a catch from being made, any runs 
completed by the batters shall not be scored but any penalties 
awarded to either side shall stand.
 37.6 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.68 8.69 41 UNFAIR PLAY
 41.1 Fair and unfair play – responsibility of captains
  The captains are responsible for ensuring that play is conducted within 
the Spirit of Cricket, as well as within these Playing Conditions.
 41.2 Fair and unfair play – responsibility of umpires
 41.2.1 The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play. If 
either umpire considers that any action by a player, not covered 
by these Playing Conditions, is unfair, he/she shall call and signal 
Dead ball, if appropriate, as soon as it becomes clear that the 
call will not disadvantage the non-offending side, and report 
the matter to the other umpire.  
	 41.2.1.1	 If	this	is	a	first	offence	by	that	side,	the	bowler’s	end	
umpire shall then
 -  summon the offending player’s captain and issue 
a	first	and	final	warning	which	shall	apply	to	all	
members of the team for the remainder of the 
match.
 -  warn the offending player’s captain that any 
further such offence by any member of her team 
shall result in the award of 5 Penalty runs to the 
opposing team.
 41.2.1.2 If this is a second or subsequent offence by that side 
the bowler’s end umpire shall then
 -  summon the offending player’s captain and inform 
her that there has been a further such offence.
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing side.
 41.2.1.3 The umpires shall may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the player concerned.
 41.3 The match ball – changing its condition
 41.3.1 The umpires shall make frequent and irregular inspections of the 
ball. In addition, they shall immediately inspect the ball if they 
suspect anyone of attempting to change the condition of the 
ball, except as permitted in clause 41.3.2.
 41.3.2 It is an offence for any player to take any action which changes 
the condition of the ball.
   Except in carrying out her normal duties, a batter is not allowed 
to wilfully damage the ball other than, when the ball is in play, in 
striking it with the bat. See also clause 5.5 (Damage to the ball). 39 STUMPED
 39.1 Out Stumped
 39.1.1 The striker is out Stumped, except as in clause 39.3, if
  a ball which is delivered is not called No ball
  and she is out of her ground, other than as in clause 39.3.1
  and she has not attempted a run
  when her wicket is fairly put down by the wicket-keeper 
without	the	intervention	of	another	fielder.	Note,	however	
clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper).
 39.1.2 The striker is out Stumped if all the conditions of clause 39.1.1 are 
satisfied,	even	though	a	decision	of	Run	out	would	be	justified.
 39.2 Ball rebounding from wicket-keeper’s person
  If the wicket is put down by the ball, it shall be regarded as having been 
put down by the wicket-keeper if the ball rebounds on to the stumps 
from any part of the wicket-keeper’s person or equipment or has been 
kicked or thrown on to the stumps by the wicket-keeper.
 39.3 Not out Stumped
 39.3.1 The striker will not be out Stumped if, after having received the 
delivery, she has left her ground in order to avoid injury.
 39.3.2 If the striker is not out Stumped she may, except in the 
circumstances of clause 38.2.2.2 (Batter not out run out) be out 
Run out if the conditions of clause 38.1 (Out Run out) apply.
 40 TIMED OUT
 40.1 Out Timed out
 40.1.1 After the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batter, the 
incoming batter must, unless Time has been called, be in 
position to take guard or for the other batter to be ready 
to receive the next ball within 3 minutes of the dismissal or 
retirement. If this requirement is not met, the incoming batter 
will be out, Timed out.
 40.1.2 In the event of an extended delay in which no batter comes to 
the wicket, the umpires shall adopt the procedure of clause 16.2 
(ICC Match Referee awarding a match). For the purposes of that 
clause the start of the action shall be taken as the expiry of the 
3 minutes referred to above.
 40.2 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.70 8.71 41.3.6 If it is not possible to identify the player(s) responsible for 
changing the condition of the ball, the umpires shall;
 41.3.6.1 Change the ball forthwith. The umpires shall choose 
the replacement ball for one of similar wear and 
of the same brand as the ball in use prior to the 
contravention.
 41.3.6.2 The bowler’s end umpire shall issue the captain with a 
first	and	final	warning,	and
 41.3.6.3 Advise the captain that should there be any further 
instances of changing the condition of the ball by that 
team during the remainder of the series, clause 41.3.5.2 
above will be adopted, with the captain deemed to 
be the player responsible for the contravention.
 41.4 Deliberate attempt to distract striker
	 41.4.1	 It	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	deliberately	to	attempt	to	distract	the	
striker while she is preparing to receive or receiving a delivery.
	 41.4.2	 If	either	umpire	considers	that	any	action	by	a	fielder	is	such	an	
attempt, he/she shall immediately call and signal Dead ball and 
inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. The bowler’s 
end umpire shall
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side,	the	batters	and,	as	
soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of the 
reason for the action.
  Neither batter shall be dismissed from that delivery and the ball 
shall not count as one of the over.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.5 Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batter
	 41.5.1	 In	addition	to	clause	41.4,	it	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	wilfully	to	
attempt, by word or action, to distract, deceive or obstruct 
either batter after the striker has received the ball.
 41.5.2 It is for either one of the umpires to decide whether any 
distraction, deception or obstruction is wilful or not.
	 41.5.3	 If	either	umpire	considers	that	a	fielder	has	caused	or	attempted	
to cause such a distraction, deception or obstruction, he/she 
shall immediately call and signal Dead ball and inform the other 
umpire of the reason for the call.
 41.5.4 Neither batter shall be dismissed from that delivery.	 	 A	fielder	may,	however:
 41.3.2.1 polish the ball on her clothing provided that no 
artificial	substance	is	used	and	that	such	polishing	
wastes no time.
 41.3.2.2 remove mud from the ball under the supervision of  
an umpire.
 41.3.2.3 dry a wet ball on a piece of cloth that has been 
approved by the umpires.
 41.3.3 The umpires shall consider the condition of the ball to have 
been unfairly changed if any action by any player does not 
comply with the conditions in clause 41.3.2.
 41.3.4 If the umpires together agree that the condition of the ball has 
been unfairly changed by a member or members of either side, 
or that its condition is inconsistent with the use it has received, 
they shall consider that there has been a contravention of 
this clause and decide together whether they can identify the 
player(s) responsible for such conduct. 
 41.3.5 If it is possible to identify the player(s) responsible for changing 
the condition of the ball, the umpires shall;
 41.3.5.1 Change the ball forthwith. 
 41.3.5.1.1 If the umpires together agree that the 
condition of the ball has been unfairly 
changed by a member or members of the 
fielding	side,	the	batter	at	the	wicket	shall 	
choose the replacement ball from a selection 
of six other balls of various degrees of usage 
(including a new ball) and of the same brand 
as the ball in use prior to the contravention.
 41.3.5.1.2 If the umpires together agree that the 
condition of the ball has been unfairly 
changed by a member or members of the 
batting side, the umpires shall select and 
bring into use immediately, a ball which shall 
have wear comparable to that of the previous 
ball immediately prior to the contravention.
 41.3.5.2 Additionally, the bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	opposing	side.
	 –		if	appropriate,	inform	the	batters	at	the	wicket	and	
the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	that	the	ball	has	
been changed and the reason for their action.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	batting	side	as	soon	as	
practicable of what has occurred.
  The umpires shall then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the player(s) concerned.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.72 8.73 41.6.1.3 Should there be any further instance by the same 
bowler in that innings, the umpire shall
	 –		call	and	signal	No	ball
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	
fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	immediately	
from bowling
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	for	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to 
bowl again in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another 
bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part of the 
previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the 
next over.
	 –		The	umpire	shall	report	the	occurrence	to	the	
batters and, as soon as practicable, to the captain 
of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the bowler concerned.
 41.6.1.4 A bowler shall be limited to two fast short-pitched 
deliveries per over.
	 41.6.1.5	 A	fast	short-pitched	delivery	is	defined	as	a	ball,	which 	
passes or would have passed above the shoulder height 
of the striker standing upright at the popping crease.
 41.6.1.6 The umpire at the bowler’s end shall advise the 
bowler and the batter on strike when each fast short 
pitched delivery has been bowled.
 41.6.1.7 In addition, a ball that passes above head height of 
the batter, standing upright at the popping crease, 
that prevents her from being able to hit it with her 
bat by means of a normal cricket stroke shall be called 
a Wide. See also clause 22.1.1.2
 41.6.1.7.1 For the avoidance of doubt any fast short 
pitched delivery that is called a Wide under 
this playing condition shall also count 
as one of the allowable short pitched 
deliveries in that over.
 41.6.1.8 In the event of a bowler bowling more than two fast 
short-pitched	deliveries	in	an	over	as	defined	in	clause	
41.6.1.5 above, the umpire at the bowler’s end shall 
call and signal No ball on each occasion. A differential 
signal shall be used to signify a fast short pitched 
delivery.	The	umpire	shall	call	and	signal	‘No	ball’	and	
then tap the head with the other hand. 41.5.5 If an obstruction involves physical contact, the umpires 
together shall decide whether or not an offence under clause 42 
(Players’ conduct) has been committed.
 41.5.5.1 If an offence under clause 42 (Players’ conduct) 
has been committed, they shall apply the relevant 
procedures in clause 42 and shall also apply each of 
clauses 41.5.7 to 41.5.9.
 41.5.5.2 If they consider that there has been no offence under 
clause 42 (Players’ conduct), they shall apply each of 
clauses 41.5.6 to 41.5.10.
 41.5.6 The bowler’s end umpire shall;
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	reason	for	this	
action and as soon as practicable inform the captain of the 
batting side.
 41.5.7 The ball shall not count as one of the over.
 41.5.8 Any runs completed by the batters before the offence shall be 
scored, together with any runs for penalties awarded to either 
side. Additionally, the run in progress shall be scored whether or 
not the batters had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
 41.5.9 The batters at the wicket shall decide which of them is to face 
the next delivery.
 41.5.10 The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.6 Bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries
 41.6.1 Notwithstanding clause 41.6.2, the bowling of short pitched 
deliveries is dangerous if the bowler’s end umpire considers 
that, taking into consideration the skill of the striker, by their 
speed,	length,	height	and	direction	they	are	likely	to	inflict	
physical injury on her. The fact that the striker is wearing 
protective equipment shall be disregarded.
	 	 In	the	first	instance	the	umpire	decides	that	the	bowling	of	
short pitched deliveries has become dangerous under 41.6.1
 41.6.1.1 The umpire shall call and signal No ball, and when 
the ball is dead, caution the bowler and inform the 
other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	
batters of what has occurred. This caution shall apply 
to that bowler throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.2 If there is a second instance, the umpire shall repeat 
the above procedure and indicate to the bowler that 
this	is	a	final	warning,	which	shall	apply	to	that	bowler	
throughout the innings.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.74 8.75 41.7.2 Should there be any further instance (where a dangerous 
non-pitching	delivery	is	bowled	and	is	considered	likely	to	inflict	
physical injury on the batter) by the same bowler in that innings, 
the umpire shall
	 –		call	and	signal	No	ball
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	for	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again 
in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, 
who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over, 
nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.
  Additionally the umpire shall
	 –		report	the	occurrence	to	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, to the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the bowler concerned.
 41.7.3 The warning sequence in clauses 41.7.1 and 41.7.2 is independent 
of the warning and action sequence in clause 41.6.
 41.7.4 If the umpire considers that a bowler deliberately bowled a high 
full-pitched delivery, deemed to be dangerous and unfair as 
defined	in	clause	41.7.1,	then	the	caution	and	warning	in	clause	
41.7.1 shall be dispensed with. The umpire shall
	 –		immediately	call	and	signal	No	ball.
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling and inform 
the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again 
in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, 
who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over, 
nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.
	 –		report	the	occurrence	to	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, to the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the bowler concerned. 41.6.1.9 If a bowler delivers a third fast short pitched ball in an 
over, the umpire, after the call of No ball and when 
the ball is dead, shall caution the bowler, inform the 
other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	
the batters at the wicket of what has occurred. This 
caution shall apply throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.10 If there is a second instance of the bowler being  
No balled in the innings for bowling more than two 
fast short pitched deliveries in an over, the umpire 
shall	advise	the	bowler	that	this	is	her	final	warning	
for the innings.
 41.6.1.11 Should there be any further instance by the same 
bowler in that innings, the umpire shall
	 –		call	and	signal	No	ball
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	
fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	immediately	
from bowling
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	for	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to 
bowl again in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another 
bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part of the 
previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the 
next over.
	 –		The	umpire	shall	report	the	occurrence	to	the	
batters and, as soon as practicable, to the captain 
of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the bowler concerned.
 41.6.2 Should the umpires initiate the caution and warning procedures 
set out in clauses 41.6.1.3 and 41.7 such cautions and warnings are 
not to be cumulative.
 41.7 Bowling of dangerous and unfair non-pitching deliveries
 41.7.1 Any delivery, which passes or would have passed, without 
pitching, above waist height of the striker standing upright at 
the popping crease, is to be deemed to be unfair, whether or 
not	it	is	likely	to	inflict	physical	injury	on	the	striker.	If	the	bowler	
bowls such a delivery the umpire shall immediately call and 
signal No ball.
  If, in the opinion of the umpire, such a delivery is considered likely 
to	inflict	physical	injury	on	the	batter	by	its	speed	and	direction, 	
it shall be considered dangerous. When the ball is dead the 
umpire	shall	caution	the	bowler,	indicating	that	this	is	a	first	and 	
final	warning.	The	umpire	shall	also	inform	the	other	umpire,	the 	
captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	batters	of	what	has	occurred. 	
This caution shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.76 8.77 41.10 Batter wasting time
 41.10.1 It is unfair for a batter to waste time. In normal circumstances, 
the striker should always be ready to take strike when the 
bowler is ready to start her run-up.
  In addition, an incoming batter should be in position to take 
guard or her partner ready to receive the next ball within 2 
minutes of the fall of the previous wicket.
 41.10.2 Should either batter waste time by failing to meet this requirement, 
or in any other way, the following procedure shall be adopted. At the 
first	instance,	either	before	the	bowler	starts	her	run-up	or	when	the 	
ball becomes dead, as appropriate, the umpire shall
 –		warn	both	batters	and	indicate	that	this	is	a	first	and	final	
warning. This warning shall apply throughout the innings. The 
umpire shall so inform each incoming batter.
 –  inform the other umpire of what has occurred.
 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
 41.10.3 If there is any further time wasting by any batter in that innings, 
the umpire shall, at the appropriate time while the ball is dead
 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
 –  inform the other umpire of the reason for this action.
 –		inform	the	other	batter,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	
as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of what 
has occurred.
  If the umpires believe that the act of time wasting was deemed 
to be deliberate or repetitive, they may lodge a report under the 
Code of Conduct. In such circumstances the batter concerned will 
be charged.
 41.11 The protected area
	 	 The	protected	area	is	defined	as	that	area	of	the	pitch	contained	within	
a rectangle bounded at each end by imaginary lines parallel to the 
popping creases and 5 ft/1.52 m in front of each, and on the sides by 
imaginary lines, one each side of the imaginary line joining the centres 
of the two middle stumps, each parallel to it and 1 ft/30.48 cm from it.
 41.12 Fielder damaging the pitch
 41.12.1 It is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the 
pitch.	A	fielder	will	be	deemed	to	be	causing	avoidable	damage	
if either umpire considers that her presence on the pitch is 
without reasonable cause.
	 41.12.2	 If	a	fielder	causes	avoidable	damage	to	the	pitch,	other	than	
as	in	clause	41.13.1,	at	the	first	instance	the	umpire	seeing	the	
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire. The bowler’s end umpire shall then
 –		caution	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	indicate	that	this	
is	a	first	and	final	warning.	 This	warning	shall	apply	throughout	
the innings.
 –  inform the batters of what has occurred. 41.8 Bowling of deliberate front-foot No ball
  If the umpire considers that the bowler has delivered a deliberate 
front-foot No ball, he/she shall
	 –		immediately	call	and	signal	No	ball.
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	for	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in  
that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, who shall 
neither have bowled any part of the previous over, nor be allowed to 
bowl any part of the next over.
	 –		report	the	occurrence	to	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	to	
the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against 
the bowler concerned.
	 41.9	 Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	side
	 41.9.1	 It	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	to	waste	time.
 41.9.2 If either umpire considers that the progress of an over is 
unnecessarily slow, or time is being wasted in any other way, 
by	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	or	by	any	other	fielder,	at	the	
first	instance	the	umpire	concerned	shall
	 –		if	the	ball	is	in	play,	call	and	signal	Dead	ball.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	what	has	occurred.
 The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		warn	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side,	indicating	that	this	is	a	
first	and	final	warning.
	 –		inform	the	batters	of	what	has	occurred.
 41.9.3 If either umpire considers that there is any further waste of time 
in	that	innings	by	any	fielder,	the	umpire	concerned	shall
	 –		if	the	ball	is	in	play,	call	and	signal	Dead	ball.
	 –	inform	the	other	umpire	of	what	has	occurred.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then award 5 Penalty runs to the 
batting	side	and	inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	
reason for this action.
  Additionally the umpire shall inform the batters and, as soon as is 
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
  If the umpires believe that the act of time wasting was 
deliberate or repetitive, they may lodge a report under the 
Code of Conduct. In such circumstances the Captain and/or any 
individual	members	of	the	fielding	team	responsible	for	the	time	
wasting will be charged.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.78 8.79 41.14 Batter damaging the pitch
 41.14.1 It is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch. 
If the striker enters the protected area in playing or playing at the 
ball, she must move from it immediately thereafter. A batter will be 
deemed to be causing avoidable damage if either umpire considers 
that her presence on the pitch is without reasonable cause.
 41.14.2 If either batter causes deliberate or avoidable damage to the 
pitch,	other	than	as	in	clause	41.15,	at	the	first	instance	the	
umpire seeing the contravention shall, when the ball is dead, 
inform the other umpire of the occurrence. The bowler’s end 
umpire shall then
	 –		warn	both	batters	that	the	practice	is	unfair	and	indicate	
that	this	is	a	first	and	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	apply	
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform each 
incoming batter.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
 41.14.3 If there is any further instance of avoidable damage to the 
pitch by any batter in that innings, the umpire seeing the 
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		return	any	not	out	batter	to	her	original	end.
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	to	the	scorers	if	applicable.
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
	 –		award	any	other	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side).
	 –		Inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the batter concerned.
 41.15 Striker in protected area
 41.15.1 The striker shall not adopt a stance in the protected area or so 
close to it that frequent encroachment is inevitable.
  The striker may mark a guard on the pitch provided that no 
mark is unreasonably close to the protected area.
 41.15.2 If either umpire considers that the striker is in breach of any of 
the conditions in clause 41.15.1, if the bowler has not entered 
the delivery stride, he/she shall immediately call Dead ball, 
otherwise, wait until the ball is dead; he/she shall then inform 
the other umpire of the occurrence. 41.12.3 If, in that innings, there is any further instance of avoidable 
damage	to	the	pitch,	by	any	fielder,	the	umpire	seeing	the	
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire. The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
  Additionally the umpire shall
	 –		inform	the	fielding	captain	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
	 –		inform	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	the	captain	of	
the batting side of what has occurred.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate	against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.13 Bowler running on protected area
 41.13.1 It is unfair for a bowler to enter the protected area in her  
follow-through without reasonable cause, whether or not the 
ball is delivered.
	 41.13.2	 If	a	bowler	contravenes	this	clause,	at	the	first	instance	and	
when the ball is dead, the umpire shall
	 –		caution	the	bowler	and	inform	the	other	umpire	of	what	has	
occurred. This caution shall apply to that bowler throughout 
the innings.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	batters	of	what	
has occurred.
 41.13.3 If, in that innings, the same bowler again contravenes this 
clause, the umpire shall repeat the above procedure indicating 
that	this	is	a	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	also	apply	
throughout the innings.
 41.13.4 If, in that innings, the same bowler contravenes this clause a 
third time, when the ball is dead, the umpire shall,
	 –		direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	
immediately from bowling. If applicable, the over shall be 
completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled 
any part of the previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any 
part of the next over. The bowler taken off shall not be 
allowed to bowl again in that innings.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
	 –		inform	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	the	captain	of	
the batting side of what has occurred.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the bowler concerned.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.80 8.81  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		return	the	batters	to	their	original	ends.
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
	 –		inform	the	batters,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	
soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side, of the 
reason for this action.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the batter concerned.
 41.18 Penalty runs
 41.18.1 When Penalty runs are awarded to either side, when the ball is 
dead the umpire shall signal the Penalty runs to the scorers. See 
clause 2.13 (Signals).
 41.18.2 Penalty runs shall be awarded in each case where these Playing 
Conditions require the award, even if a result has already been 
achieved. See clause 16.6 (Winning hit or extras).
  Note, however, that the restrictions on awarding Penalty runs, 
in clauses 23.3 (Leg byes not to be awarded), 34.4 (Runs scored 
from ball lawfully struck more than once) and 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side),	will	apply.
 41.18.3 When 5 Penalty runs are awarded to the batting side under 
any of clauses 24.4 (Player returning without permission), 28.2 
(Fielding the ball), 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the 
fielding	side)	or	under	41.3,	41.4,	41.5,	41.9	or	41.12,	then
	 –		they	shall	be	scored	as	Penalty	extras	and	shall	be	in	addition	
to any other penalties.
	 –		they	are	awarded	when	the	ball	is	dead	and	shall	not	
be regarded as runs scored from either the immediately 
preceding delivery or the immediately following delivery,  
and shall be in addition to any runs from those deliveries.
	 –		the	batters	shall	not	change	ends	solely	by	reason	of	the	 
5 run penalty.
	 41.18.4	 When	5	Penalty	runs	are	awarded	to	the	fielding	side,	under	
clause 18.5.2 (Deliberate short runs), or under 41.10, 41.14, 41.15 or 
41.17, they shall be added as Penalty extras to that side’s total of 
runs	in	its	most	recently	completed	innings.	If	the	fielding	side	
has not completed an innings, the 5 Penalty runs shall be added 
to the score in its next innings.
 42 PLAYERS’ CONDUCT
 42.1 Serious misconduct
 42.1.1 The umpires shall act upon any serious misconduct. The relevant 
offences and the corresponding actions by the umpires are 
identified	in	clause	42.2.1.	These	offences	correspond	with	
Level 4 offences in the ICC Code of Conduct. Level 1 to Level 
3 offences continue to be dealt with separately under the ICC 
Code of Conduct.  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		warn	the	striker	that	the	practice	is	unfair	and	indicate	
that	this	is	a	first	and	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	apply	
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform the 
non-striker and each incoming batter.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has 
occurred.
 41.15.3 If there is any further breach of any of the conditions in clause 
41.15.1 by any batter in that innings, the umpire seeing the 
contravention shall, if the bowler has not entered her delivery 
stride, immediately call and signal Dead ball, otherwise, he/she 
shall wait until the ball is dead and then inform the other umpire 
of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		return	any	not	out	batter	to	her	original	end.
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	to	the	scorers	if	applicable.
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
	 –		award	any	other	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side).
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the batter concerned.
 41.16 Non-striker leaving her ground early
  If the non-striker is out of her ground from the moment the ball comes 
into play to the instant when the bowler would normally have been 
expected to release the ball, the bowler is permitted to attempt to 
run her out. Whether the attempt is successful or not, the ball shall not 
count as one in the over.
  If the bowler fails in an attempt to run out the non-striker, the umpire 
shall call and signal Dead ball as soon as possible.
 41.17 Batters stealing a run
 41.17.1 It is unfair for the batters to attempt to steal a run during the 
bowler’s run-up.
	 	 Unless	the	bowler	attempts	to	run	out	either	batter	–	see	
clauses 41.16 and 21.4 (Bowler throwing towards striker’s end 
before	delivery)	–	the	umpire	shall
	 –	call	and	signal	Dead	ball	as	soon	as	the	batters	cross	in	such	 
an attempt.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	the	reason	for	this	action.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.82 8.83 42.2.2.3.3 If the offending player is a batter she is to 
be	recorded	as	Retired	–	out	in	the	current 	
innings, unless she has been dismissed 
under any of clauses 32 to 39, and at the 
commencement of any subsequent innings 
in which her team is the batting side. If no 
further batter is available to bat, the innings is 
completed.
 42.2.2.4 As soon as practicable, the umpire shall:
 –  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing team
 –  signal the Level 4 penalty to the scorers
 –  call Play.
 42.2.2.5 The umpires shall then report the matter to the ICC 
Match Referee under the ICC Code of Conduct.
	 42.3	 Captain	refusing	to	remove	a	player	from	the	field
 42.3.1 If a captain refuses to carry out an instruction under 42.2.2.3, the 
umpires shall invoke clause 16.2 (ICC Match Referee awarding a 
match).
 42.3.2 If both captains refuse to carry out instructions under 42.2.2.3 
in respect of the same incident, the umpires shall instruct the 
players	to	leave	the	field.	The	match	is	not	concluded	as	in	
clause 12.6 and there shall be no result under clause 16.
 42.4 Additional points relating to Level 4 offences
 42.4.1 If a player, while acting as wicket-keeper, commits a Level 
4 offence, clause 24.1.2 shall not apply, meaning that only a 
nominated	player	may	keep	wicket,	even	if	another	fielder	
becomes injured or ill and is replaced by a substitute.
 42.4.2 A nominated player who has a substitute will also suffer the 
penalty for any Level 4 offence committed by the substitute. 
However, only the substitute will be reported under clause 42.2.2.5. 42.1.2 If either umpire considers that a player has committed one 
of these offences at any time during the match, the umpire 
concerned shall call and signal Dead ball. This call may be delayed 
until	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	it	will	not	disadvantage	the	
non-offending side.
 42.1.3 The umpire concerned shall report the matter to the other umpire 
and together they shall decide whether an offence has been 
committed. The umpires may also consult with the third umpire 
and the match referee, who may review any audio or video replays 
to	confirm	whether	an	offence	has	been	committed.	If	so,	the 	
umpires shall then apply the related sanctions.
 42.1.4 If the offence is committed by a batter, the umpires shall 
summon	the	offending	player’s	captain	to	the	field.	Solely	for	
the purpose of this clause, the batters at the wicket may not 
deputise for their captain.
 42.2 Level 4 offences and action by umpires
 42.2.1 Any of the following actions by a player shall constitute a Level 4 
offence:
	 –		threatening	to	assault	an	umpire
	 –		making	inappropriate	and	deliberate	physical	contact	with	 
an umpire
	 –		physically	assaulting	a	player	or	any	other	person
	 –		committing	any	other	act	of	violence.
 42.2.2 If such an offence is committed, 42.2.2.1 to 42.2.2.5 shall  
be implemented.
 42.2.2.1 The umpire shall call Time.
 42.2.2.2 Together the umpires shall summon and inform the 
offending player’s captain that an offence at this Level 
has occurred.
 42.2.2.3 The umpires shall instruct the captain to remove the 
offending	player	immediately	from	the	field	of	play	for	the 	
remainder of the match and shall apply the following:
	 42.2.2.3.1	 If	the	offending	player	is	a	fielder,	no	
substitute shall be allowed for her. She 
is	to	be	recorded	as	Retired	–	out	at	the	
commencement of any subsequent innings 
in which her team is the batting side.
 42.2.2.3.2 If a bowler is suspended mid-over, then 
that over must be completed by a different 
bowler, who shall not have bowled the 
previous over nor shall be permitted to bowl 
the next over.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.84 8.85APPENDIX A
DEFINITIONS
 1 THE MATCH
 1.1 The game is used in these Playing Conditions as a general term meaning 
the Game of Cricket. 
 1.2 A match is a single One Day International between two teams, played 
under these Playing Conditions.
 1.3 ODI is an abbreviation for One Day International.
 1.4 The toss is the toss for choice of innings.
 1.5 Before the toss is at any time before the toss on the day the match is 
expected to start.
 1.6 Before the match is at any time before the toss, not restricted to the 
day of the match.
 1.7 During the match is at any time after the toss until the conclusion of 
the match, whether play is in progress or not.
 1.8 Playing time is any time between the call of Play and the call of Time. 
See clauses 12.1 (Call of Play) and 12.2 (Call of Time). 
 1.9 Conduct of the match includes any action relevant to the match at any time.
 1.10 Ground Authority is the entity responsible for the selection and 
preparation of the pitch and other functions relating to the hosting and 
management of the match, including any agents acting on their behalf 
(including but not limited to the curator or other ground staff).
 1.11 Home Board is the ICC member responsible for the home team and the 
hosting of the match.
 1.12 Visiting Board is the ICC member responsible for the visiting team.
 1.13 The Spirit of Cricket refers to the values of respect and fair play that 
underpin the game of cricket, as set out in the Preamble to these 
Playing Conditions.
 1.14 The ICC Code of Conduct is the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and 
Player Support Personnel, as amended from time to time.
 2 IMPLEMENTS AND EQUIPMENT
 2.1 Implements used in the match are the bat, the ball, the stumps and bails.
 2.2 External protective equipment is any visible item of apparel worn for 
protection against external blows.
  For a batter, items permitted are a protective helmet, external leg 
guards (batting pads), batting gloves and, if visible, forearm guards.
	 	 For	a	fielder,	only	a	protective	helmet	is	permitted,	except	in	the	case	of	
a wicket-keeper, for whom wicket-keeping pads and gloves are  
also permitted.APPENDICES TO  
ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS
(INCORPORATING THE 2017 CODE OF THE MCC LAWS OF CRICKET)
A.	 Definitions
B. Equipment
 1. The bat
 2. The wickets
 3. Wicket-keeping gloves
C. The venue
 1. The pitch and the creases
 2. Advertising on grounds, perimeter boards and sight-screens
 3. Markings	on	outfield
D. Decision Review System (DRS) and Third Umpire Protocol
E. CalculationsICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.86 8.87 4.5 The wicket-keeper’s end is the same as the striker’s end as described in 
paragraph 4.3.
 4.6 In front of the line of the striker’s wicket	is	in	the	area	of	the	field	of	
play in front of the imaginary line joining the fronts of the stumps at the 
striker’s end; this line to be considered extended in both directions to 
the boundary. See paragraph 4.2.
 4.7 Behind the wicket	is	in	the	area	of	the	field	of	play	behind	the	imaginary 	
line joining the backs of the stumps at the appropriate end; this line to be 
considered extended in both directions to the boundary. See paragraph 4.1.
 4.8 Behind the wicket-keeper is behind the wicket at the striker’s end, as 
defined	above,	but	in	line	with	both	sets	of	stumps	and	further	from	the	
stumps than the wicket-keeper.
 4.9 Off side/on (leg) side –	see	diagram	in	paragraph	13.
 4.10 Inside edge is the edge on the same side as the nearer wicket. 
 5 UMPIRES AND DECISION-MAKING
 5.1 Umpire	–	where	the	description	the	umpire	is	used	on	its	own,	it	
always	means	‘the	bowler’s	end	umpire’	though	this	full	description	is	
sometimes used for emphasis or clarity. Similarly the umpires always 
means both umpires and the third umpire. An umpire and umpires are 
generalised terms. Otherwise, a fuller description indicates which one 
of	the	umpires	is	specifically	intended.	Each	umpire	will	be	bowler’s	end	
umpire and striker’s end umpire in alternate overs. 
 5.2 Bowler’s end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the bowler’s end 
(see paragraph 4.4) for the current delivery.
 5.3 Striker’s end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the striker’s end 
(see paragraph 4.3), to one side of the pitch or the other, depending on 
his/her choice, for the current delivery. 
 5.4 On-field	umpires shall mean, collectively, the bowler’s end umpire and 
the striker’s end umpire.
 5.5 Third umpire is the umpire who may use television evidence and other 
available	technology	in	order	review	a	decision	of	the	on-field	umpires,	
either by way of an Umpire Review or a Player Review under the 
protocol set out in Appendix D.
 5.6 Umpires together agree applies to decisions which the umpires are to 
make jointly, independently of the players.
 5.7 Decision Review System or DRS is the process covered by the Decision 
Review System and Third Umpire Protocol set out in Appendix D, under 
which the third umpire may be consulted in relation to a decision of the 
on-field	umpires,	either	by	way	of	an	Umpire	Review	or	a	Player	Review.
 5.8 Player Review is the process set out in Appendix D by which a player may 
request	a	review	of	any	decision	taken	by	the	on-field	umpires	concerning 	
whether	or	not	a	batter	is	dismissed	(with	the	exception	of	‘Timed	out’).
 5.9 Umpire Review is the process set out in Appendix D by which an 
on-field	umpire	has	the	discretion	to	refer	a	decision	to	the	third	umpire	
or, under certain circumstances, to consult with the third umpire before 
making a decision. 2.3 A protective helmet is headwear made of hard material and designed 
to protect the head or the face or both, which shall (in line with the 
Clothing	and	Equipment	Regulations)	be	certified	to	BS7928:2013.	
For the purposes of interpreting these Playing Conditions, such a 
description will include faceguards.
 2.4 Equipment	–	a	batter’s	equipment	is	her	bat	as	defined	above,	together	
with any external protective equipment she is wearing.
	 	 A	fielder’s	equipment	is	any	external	protective	equipment	that	she	  
is wearing.
 2.5 The bat	–	the	following	are	to	be	considered	as	part	of	the	bat:
	 –	 the	whole	of	the	bat	itself.
	 –	 the	whole	of	a	glove	(or	gloves)	worn	on	the	hand	(or	hands)	holding	
the bat.
	 –	 the	hand	(or	hands)	holding	the	bat,	if	the	batter	is	not	wearing	a	
glove on that hand or on those hands.
 2.6 Held in batter’s hand. Contact between a batter’s hand, or glove worn 
on her hand, and any part of the bat shall constitute the bat being held 
in that hand.
 3 THE PLAYING AREA
 3.1 The	field	of	play is the area contained within the boundary.
 3.2 The square	is	a	specially	prepared	area	of	the	field	of	play	within	which	
the match pitch is situated.
 3.3 The	outfield	is	that	part	of	the	field	of	play	between	the	square	and	  
the boundary.
 4 POSITIONING
 4.1 Behind the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area of the 
field	of	play,	including	any	other	marking,	objects	and	persons	therein,	
that is on that side of the popping crease that does not include the 
creases at the opposite end of the pitch. Behind, in relation to any other 
marking, object or person, follows the same principle. See the diagram 
in paragraph 13. 
 4.2 In front of the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area 
of	the	field	of	play,	including	any	other	marking,	objects	and	persons	
therein, that is on that side of the popping crease that includes the 
creases at the opposite end of the pitch. In front of, in relation to any 
other marking, object or person, follows the same principle. See the 
diagram in paragraph 13.
 4.3 The striker’s end is the place where the striker stands to receive a 
delivery	from	the	bowler	only	insofar	as	it	identifies,	independently	of	
where the striker may subsequently move, one end of the pitch. 
 4.4 The bowler’s end is the end from which the bowler delivers the ball. It is 
the	other	end	of	the	pitch	from	the	striker’s	end	and	identifies	that	end	
of the pitch that is not the striker’s end as described in paragraph 4.3. ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.88 8.89 6 BATTERS
 6.1 Batting side is the side currently batting, whether or not play is in progress.
 6.2 Member of the batting side is one of the players nominated by the 
captain of the batting side, or any authorised replacement for such 
nominated player.
 6.3 A batter’s ground –	at	each	end	of	the	pitch,	the	whole	area	of	the	field	
of play behind the popping crease is the ground at that end for a batter.
 6.4 Original end is the end where a batter was when the ball came into play 
for that delivery.
 6.5 Wicket she has left is the wicket at the end where a batter was at the 
start of the run in progress.
 6.6 Guard position is the position and posture adopted by the striker to 
receive a ball delivered by the bowler.
 6.7	 For	the	purposes	of	these	Playing	Conditions,	waist	height	is	defined	as	
the point at which the top of the batter’s trousers would conventionally 
be when she is standing upright at the popping crease.
 7 FIELDERS
 7.1 Fielding side	is	the	side	currently	fielding,	whether	or	not	play	is	in	progress.
 7.2 Member	of	the	fielding	side is one of the players nominated by the 
captain	of	the	fielding	side,	or	any	authorised	replacement	or	substitute	
for such nominated player. 
 7.3 Fielder is one of the 11 or fewer players who together represent the 
fielding	side	on	the	field	of	play.	This	definition	includes	not	only	both	
the bowler and the wicket-keeper but also nominated players who 
are	legitimately	on	the	field	of	play,	together	with	players	legitimately	
acting as substitutes for absent nominated players. It excludes any 
nominated	player	who	is	absent	from	the	field	of	play,	or	who	has	been	
absent	from	the	field	of	play	and	who	has	not	yet	obtained	the	umpire’s	
permission to return. 
	 	 A	player	going	briefly	outside	the	boundary	in	the	course	of	discharging	
her	duties	as	a	fielder	is	not	absent	from	the	field	of	play	nor,	for	the	
purposes	of	clause	24.2	(Fielder	absent	or	leaving	the	field	of	play),	is	she	
to	be	regarded	as	having	left	the	field	of	play.
 8 SUBSTITUTES AND CONCUSSION REPLACEMENTS
 8.1 A Substitute	is	a	player	who	takes	the	place	of	a	fielder	on	the	field	of	play, 	
but does not replace the player for whom she substitutes on that side’s list 
of	nominated	players.		A	substitute’s	activities	are	limited	to	fielding.
 8.2 A Concussion Replacement is a player who takes the place of a player 
who has been replaced in accordance with the process set out in clause 
1.2.7, and who for the remainder of the match replaces that player on that 
side’s list of nominated players, being able to take a full part in the match 
(subject to such restrictions as may be imposed by the ICC Match Referee in 
accordance with clause 1.2.8
 8.3 A Concussion Replacement Request	is	the	notification	made	to	the	ICC 	
Match Referee in accordance with the process set out in clause 1.2.7.3 5.10 Soft Signal is the visual communication by the bowler’s end umpire to 
the third umpire (accompanied by additional information via two-way 
radio	where	necessary)	of	his/her	initial	on-field	decision	prior	to	
initiating an Umpire Review.
 5.11 Umpire’s Call	is	the	concept	within	the	DRS	under	which	the	on-field	
decision of the bowler’s end umpire shall stand, which shall apply 
under	the	specific	circumstances	set	out	in	paragraphs	3.4.5	and	3.4.6	of	
Appendix D, where the ball-tracking technology indicates a marginal 
decision in respect of either the Impact Zone or the Wicket Zone.
 5.12 The Pitching Zone as used in the DRS is a two dimensional area on the 
pitch between both sets of stumps with its boundaries consisting of the 
base of both sets of stumps and a line between the outside of the outer 
stumps at each end.
 5.13 The Impact Zone as used in the DRS is a three dimensional space 
extending	 between	 both	sets	of	stumps	to	an	indefinite	 height	vertically	
and with its boundaries consisting of the base of the stumps and the 
outside of the outer stumps at each end.
 5.14 The Wicket Zone as used in the DRS is a two dimensional area with its 
boundaries consisting of the outside of the outer stumps, the base of 
the stumps, and the lower edge of the bails.
 5.15 A Fair Catch	is	a	catch	that	has	been	taken	cleanly	by	the	fielder	in	
accordance with clause 33.
 5.16 A Bump Ball is where the ball has made contact with the ground shortly 
after making contact with the striker’s bat.
 5.17 The Elite Panel	is	the	group	of	umpires	contracted	to	the	ICC	to	officiate	
in international cricket. 
 5.18 The International Panel is the group of umpires nominated by the ICC’s 
full members in accordance with clause Error! Reference source not 
found. of the Playing Conditions.
 5.19 The First-Class Panel is the group of umpires nominated by the ICC’s full 
members in accordance with clause 2.1.3 of the Playing Conditions.
 5.20 The ICC Development Panel is the group of umpires nominated by the 
ICC’s full and associate members in accordance with clause 2.1.3 of the 
Playing Conditions.
 5.21 The International Panel of Referees is the group of referees nominated 
by the ICC’s full members in accordance with clause 2.1.6 of the  
Playing Conditions.
 ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.90 8.91 11 RUNS
 11.1 A run to be disallowed is one that in these Playing Conditions should 
not have been taken. It is not only to be cancelled but the batters are to 
be returned to their original ends. 
 11.2 A run not to be scored is one that is not illegal, but is not recognised 
as a properly executed run. It is not a run that has been made, so the 
question of cancellation does not arise. The loss of the run so attempted 
is not a disallowance and the batters will not be returned to their 
original ends on that account. 
 12 THE PERSON
 12.1 Person;	A	player’s	person	is	her	physical	person	(flesh	and	blood)	
together with any clothing or legitimate external protective equipment 
that she is wearing except, in the case of a batter, her bat.
  A hand, whether gloved or not, that is not holding the bat is part of the 
batter’s person.
  No item of clothing or equipment is part of the player’s person unless it 
is attached to her.
  For a batter, a glove being held but not worn is part of her person.
	 	 For	a	fielder,	an	item	of	clothing	or	equipment	she	is	holding	in	her	hand	
or hands is not part of her person.
 12.2 Clothing	–	anything	that	a	player	is	wearing,	including	such	items	
as spectacles or jewellery, that is not classed as external protective 
equipment is classed as clothing, even though she may be wearing 
some items of apparel, which are not visible, for protection. A bat being 
carried	by	a	batter	does	not	come	within	this	definition	of	clothing.
 12.3 Hand for batter or wicket-keeper shall include both the hand itself and 
the whole of a glove worn on the hand. 8.4 The Team Medical Representative is the individual designated as having 
responsibility for the assessment of any head or neck injury sustained by a 
player as set out in clause 1.2.7.2
 9 BOWLERS
 9.1 Over the wicket/round the wicket	–	If,	as	the	bowler	runs	up	between	
the wicket and the return crease, the wicket is on the same side as her 
bowling arm, she is bowling over the wicket. If the return crease is on 
the same side as her bowling arm, she is bowling round the wicket.
 9.2 Delivery swing is the motion of the bowler’s arm during which she 
normally releases the ball for a delivery.
 9.3 Delivery stride is the stride during which the delivery swing is made, 
whether the ball is released or not. It starts when the bowler’s back foot 
lands for that stride and ends when the front foot lands in the same 
stride. The stride after the delivery stride is completed when the next 
foot lands, i.e. when the back foot of the delivery stride lands again.
 9.4 The Illegal Bowling Regulations are the ICC’s regulations governing 
Illegal Bowling Actions.
 9.5 An Illegal Bowling Action is a bowling action where a bowler’s Elbow 
Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured from the point at which the 
bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the point at which the ball 
is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for the 
purposes of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).
 9.6 Elbow Extension means the motion that occurs when a bowler’s arm 
moves	from	a	flexed	(bent)	position	at	the	elbow,	to	a	more	extended	
(straight) position (full Elbow Extension occurs when the arm is straight).
 9.7 Elbow Hyperextension is the motion that occurs when a bowler’s 
elbow extends beyond the straight position.
 9.8 The ICC Bowling Action Report Form is the form provided for by Article 
3 of the Illegal Bowling Regulations, by which an umpire and/or the 
ICC Match Referee may submit a report relating to a suspected Illegal 
Bowling Action.
 10 THE BALL
 10.1 The ball is struck/strikes the ball unless	specifically	defined	otherwise,	
mean	‘the	ball	is	struck	by	the	bat’/‘strikes	the	ball	with	the	bat’.
 10.2 Rebounds directly/strikes directly	and	similar	phrases	mean	‘without	
contact	with	any	fielder’	but	do	not	exclude	contact	with	the	ground.
 10.3 Full-pitch describes a ball delivered by the bowler that reaches or 
passes the striker without having touched the ground. Sometimes 
described as non-pitching.
 ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.92 8.93APPENDIX B
EQUIPMENT
 1 THE BAT
 1.1 General guidance
	 1.1.1	 Measurements	–	All	provisions	in	paragraphs	1.2	to	1.6	below	
are subject to the measurements and restrictions stated in the 
Playing Conditions and this Appendix.
	 1.1.2	 Adhesives	–	Throughout,	adhesives	are	permitted	only	where	
essential and only in minimal quantity.
	 1.2	 Specifications	for	the	Handle
 1.2.1 One end of the handle is inserted into a recess in the blade as a 
means of joining the handle and the blade.
  This lower portion is used purely for joining the blade and 
the handle together. It is not part of the blade but, solely in 
interpreting paragraphs 1.3 and 1.4 below, references to the blade 
shall be considered to extend also to this lower portion of the 
handle where relevant.
 1.2.2 The handle may be glued where necessary and bound with twine 
along the upper portion. 
  Providing clause 5.5 is not contravened, the upper portion may 
be covered with materials solely to provide a surface suitable for 
gripping. Such covering is an addition and is not part of the bat, 
except in relation to clause 5.6. The bottom of this grip should not 
extend	below	the	point	defined	in	paragraph	1.2.4	below.
  Twine binding and the covering grip may extend beyond the 
junction of the upper and lower portions of the handle, to cover 
part	of	the	shoulders	of	the	bat	as	defined	in	paragraph	1.3.1.
  No material may be placed on or inserted into the lower portion 
of the handle other than as permitted above together with the 
minimal	adhesives	or	adhesive	tape	used	solely	for	fixing	these	
items,	or	for	fixing	the	handle	to	the	blade.
	 1.2.3	 Materials	in	handle	–	As	a	proportion	of	the	total	volume	of	the	
handle, materials other than cane, wood or twine are restricted 
to one-tenth. Such materials must not project more than 3.25 
in/8.26 cm into the lower portion of the handle.
	 1.2.4	 Binding	and	covering	of	handle	–	The	permitted	continuation	
beyond the junction of the upper and lower portions of the 
handle is restricted to a maximum, measured along the length of 
the handle, of
  2.5 in/6.35 cm in for the twine binding
  2.75 in/6.99 cm for the covering grip.
  13 OFF SIDE/ON SIDE; IN FRONT OF/  
BEHIND THE POPPING CREASE
Behind the 
popping crease
Off side
In front of the 
popping crease
Off sideBehind the 
popping crease
On side (leg side)
In front of the 
popping crease
On side (leg side)WICKET-KEEPER
UMPIREBOWLERRight-handed strikerICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.94 8.95	 1.5	 Commercial	identifications	
	 	 Such	identifications	shall	comply	with	the	restrictions	set	out	in	the	
Clothing and Equipment Regulations in relation to the size and position 
of marks and logos.
 1.6 Bat Gauge
	 	 All	bats	must	meet	the	specifications	defined	in	clause	5.7.	They	must	
also, with or without protective coverings permitted in clause 5.4, be 
able to pass through a bat gauge, the dimensions and shape of which 
are shown in the following diagram:
  DIMENSIONS OF APERTURE
  Total Depth: 2.68 in/6.8 cm
  Width: 4.33 in/11.0 cm
  Edge: 1.61 in/4.1 cm
  Curve: 0.20 in/0.5 cm
  Note: The curve of the lower edge of the aperture is an arc of a circle  
of radius 12.0 in/30.5 cm, whose centre is on the vertical centre line of 
the aperture.	 1.3	 Specifications	for	the	Blade
 1.3.1 The blade has a face, a back, a toe, sides and shoulders
 1.3.1.1 The face of the blade is its main striking surface and shall be 
flat	or	have	a	slight	convex	curve	resulting	from	traditional 	
pressing techniques. The back is the opposite surface.
 1.3.1.2 The shoulders, sides and toe are the remaining surfaces, 
separating the face and the back.
 1.3.1.3 The shoulders, one on each side of the handle, are along 
that	portion	of	the	blade	between	the	first	entry	point	of	
the	handle	and	the	point	at	which	the	blade	first	reaches	
its full width.
 1.3.1.4 The toe is the surface opposite to the shoulders taken as 
a pair.
 1.3.1.5 The sides, one each side of the blade, are along the rest 
of the blade, between the toe and the shoulders.
 1.3.2 No material may be placed on or inserted into the blade other 
than as permitted in paragraph 1.2.4, paragraph 1.3.3, and clause 
5.4 together with the minimal adhesives or adhesive tape used 
solely	for	fixing	these	items,	or	for	fixing	the	handle	to	the	blade.
 1.3.3 Covering the blade. Bats shall have no covering on the blade 
except as permitted in clause 5.4. 
  Any materials referred to above, in clause 5.4 and paragraph 1.4 
below, are to be considered as part of the bat, which must still 
pass	through	the	gauge	as	defined	in	paragraph	1.6.
 1.4 Protection and repair 
 1.4.1 The surface of the blade may be treated with non-solid materials 
to improve resistance to moisture penetration and/or mask natural 
blemishes in the appearance of the wood. Save for the purpose of 
giving a homogeneous appearance by masking natural blemishes, 
such treatment shall not materially alter the colour of the blade. 
 1.4.2 Materials can be used for protection and repair as stated in clause 
5.4 and are additional to the blade. Note however clause 5.6.
  Any such material shall not extend over any part of the back of 
the blade except in the case of clause 5.4.1 and then only when it 
is applied as a continuous wrapping covering the damaged area.
  The repair material shall not extend along the length of the blade 
more than 0.79 in/2.0 cm in each direction beyond the limits of 
the damaged area. Where used as a continuous binding, any 
overlapping shall not breach the maximum of 0.04 in/0.1 cm in 
total thickness.
  The use of non-solid material which when dry forms a hard layer 
more than 0.004 in/0.01 cm in thickness is not permitted.
 1.4.3 Permitted coverings, repair material and toe guards, not 
exceeding	their	specified	thicknesses,	may	be	additional	to	the	
dimensions above, but the bat must still pass through the gauge 
as described in paragraph 1.6.Depth 6.8cmEdge
4.1cmWidth 11.0cm
0.5cmICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.96 8.97 3 WICKET-KEEPING GLOVES
 3.1 The images below illustrate the requirements of clause 27.2 in relation to:
	 •	 no	webbing	between	the	fingers;
	 •	 a	single	piece	of	non-stretch	material	between	finger	and	thumb	as	a	
means of support; and
 • when a hand wearing the glove has the thumb fully extended, the 
top edge being taut and not protruding beyond the straight line 
joining	the	top	of	the	index	finger	to	the	top	of	the	thumb.
 3.2 Note also the requirement for wicket-keeping gloves to comply with 
the Clothing and Equipment Regulations in relation to the size and 
position of marks and logos. 2 THE WICKETS
 2.1 Bails
  Overall 4.31 in/10.95 cm
  a = 1.38 in/3.50 cm
  b = 2.13 in/5.40 cm
  c = 0.81 in/2.06 cm
 2.2 Stumps
  Height (d) = 28 in/71.1 cm
  Diameter (e) - maximum = 1.5 in/3.81 cm; minimum = 1.38 in/3.50 cm
 2.3 Overall
  Width (f) of wicket 9 in/22.86 cm
e e edb ba a c c
ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.98 8.99 2 RESTRICTION ON THE PLACEMENT OF FIELDERS APPENDIX C
THE VENUE
 1 THE PITCH AND THE CREASES
 
5ft/1.52m
Minimum
15 yards/13.71mProtected Area
Indicators
Popping
CreaseReturn
Crease
Return
CreaseBowling
Crease
Protected
Area
Indicators
Minimum
8ft/2.44m9in/22.86cm4ft/1.22cm
8ft 8in 
/2.64m1ft
30.48cm
22yds/20.12m17in/43.18cmWide
GuidelinesContinuous white line, or dots
at 5 yard (4.5 metre) intervals
25.15 yard (23 metre) radiusfrom middle of stump
25.15 yard (23 metre) radiusfrom middle of stumpICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.100 8.101APPENDIX D
DECISION REVIEW SYSTEM (DRS)  
AND THIRD UMPIRE PROTOCOL
 1 GENERAL
 1.1 Minimum requirements for use of DRS and appointment of third umpire
 1.1.1 The Home Board shall endeavor to broadcast all ODI Matches 
played in its country.
	 1.1.2	 Where	matches	are	broadcast,	the	camera	specification	set	out	
below shall be mandatory as a minimum requirement.
	 1.1.3	 Where	the	camera	specification	set	out	above	is	provided,	a	third	
umpire shall be appointed to the match.
	 1.1.4	 If	the	minimum	requirements	for	DRS	to	be	used	are	satisfied,	both 	
participating Boards may agree to employ the DRS for an ODI. 
Otherwise, the third umpire shall be appointed and empowered to 
use broadcast replays to make decisions that are referred to him/
her in accordance with paragraph 2 (Umpire Reviews). 3 ADVERTISING ON GROUNDS, PERIMETER BOARDS  
AND SIGHT-SCREENS
 3.1 Advertising on grounds
	 3.1.1	 The	logos	on	outfields	are	to	be	positioned	as	follows:	
	 a)	 Behind	the	stumps	–	a	minimum	of	25.15	yards	(23	meters)	
from the stumps. 
	 b)	 Midwicket/cover	area	–	no	advertising	to	be	positioned	
within 30 yards (27.50 meters) of the centre of the pitch 
being used for the match. 
 3.1.2 Note: Advertising closer to the stumps as set out above which 
is required to meet 3D requirements for broadcasters may be 
permitted, subject to prior ICC approval having been obtained. 
 3.2 Perimeter boards
 3.2.1 Advertising on perimeter boards placed in front of the sight-
screens is permitted save that the predominant colour of such 
advertising shall be of a contrasting colour to that of the ball. 
 3.2.2 Advertising on perimeter boards behind the stumps at both ends 
shall	not	contain	moving,	flashing	or	flickering	images	and	operators 	
should ensure that the images are only changed or moved at a time 
that will not be distracting to the players or the umpires. 
 3.2.3 The brightness of any electronic images shall be set at a level so 
that it is not a distraction to the players or umpires.
 3.3 Sight-screens 
 3.3.1 Sight-screens shall be provided at both ends of all grounds.
 3.3.2 Advertising shall be permitted on the sight-screen behind the 
striker, providing it is removed for the subsequent over from 
that end.
	 3.3.3	 Such	advertising	shall	not	contain	flashing	or	flickering	images	
and particular care should be taken by the operators that the 
advertising is not changed at a time which is distracting to  
the umpire.
 4 MARKINGS ON OUTFIELD
 With the permission of the Ground Authority, a bowler may use paint to make 
a	small	marking	on	the	outfield	for	the	purposes	of	identifying	their	run-up.	
Paint used for this purpose shall be any colour other than white.Run Out Camera 1
Run Out Camera 2Run Out Camera 3
Run Out Camera 4Ball Follow 1
Ball Follow 2ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.102 8.103 2 UMPIRE REVIEW
 For televised matches, in the circumstances detailed in paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 
2.3	and	2.4	below,	the	on-field	umpire	shall	have	the	discretion	to	refer	the	
decision to the third umpire or, in the case of paragraphs 2.2, and 2.4, to 
consult with the third umpire before making the decision.
 Save for requesting the umpire to review his/her decision under paragraph 3 
(Player	Review)	below,	players	may	not	appeal	to	the	on-field	umpires	to	use	
the Umpire Review. Breach of this provision may constitute dissent and the 
player may be subject to disciplinary action under the ICC Code of Conduct 
for Players and Player Support Personnel.
 2.1 Run Out, Stumped, Bowled and Hit Wicket Decisions
	 2.1.1	 The	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	be	entitled	to	refer	an	appeal	
for run-out, stumped, bowled or hit wicket to the third umpire.
	 2.1.2	 An	on-field	umpire	wishing	to	refer	a	decision	to	the	third	umpire	
shall signal to the third umpire by making the shape of a TV 
screen with his/her hands.
 2.1.3 In the case of a referral of a bowled, hit wicket or stumped 
decision,	the	third	umpire	shall	first	check	the	fairness	of	the	
delivery (all modes of No ball except for the bowler using an 
Illegal Bowling Action, subject to the proviso that the third 
umpire may review whether the bowler has used a prohibited 
Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	Bowling	
Regulations). If the delivery was not a fair delivery the third 
umpire shall indicate that the batter is Not out and advise the 
on-field	umpire	to	signal	No	ball.	See	also	paragraph	2.5	below.
	 2.1.4	 Additionally,	if	the	third	umpire	finds	the	batter	is	Out	by	another	
mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), or Not out by any mode of 
dismissal	(excluding	LBW),	he/she	shall	notify	the	on-field	umpire	
so that the correct decision is made.
 2.1.5 If the third umpire decides that the batter is Out, a red light shall 
be displayed; if the third umpire decides that the batter is Not 
out, a green light shall be displayed. Should the third umpire be 
temporarily unable to respond, a white light (where available) 
shall remain illuminated throughout the period of interruption 
to	signify	to	the	on-field	umpires	that	Umpire	Reviews	are	
temporarily unavailable, in which case the decision shall be taken 
by	the	on-field	umpire.	As	an	alternative	to	the	red/green	light	
system, the replay screen (where available) may be used for the 
purpose of conveying the third umpire’s decision, in line with the 
ICC Big Screen Policy. 1.1.5 The table below summarises the minimum requirements for 
DRS to be used, and the recommended regulations around the 
appointment of the third umpire:
THIRD UMPIRE (NON-DRS) DRS
Minimum 
RequirementCameras	Specification	
detailed in paragraph 1.1.2.Cameras
-	 Specification	detailed	
in paragraph 1.1.2. 
Technology.
- Approved ball-tracking 
technology.
- Approved 
sound-based edge 
detection technology.
Third Umpire 
AppointmentAppointed by Home 
Board from ICC Elite Panel, 
International Panel or First 
Class Panel of umpires.Appointed by the Home 
Board. from ICC Elite 
Panel or International 
Panel of umpires.
Third Umpire 
JurisdictionUmpire Reviews only. Umpire Reviews and 
Player Reviews.
Replays that 
can be usedThe third umpire shall only 
have access to replays of 
any camera images. Other 
technology which may be 
in use by the broadcaster 
for broadcast purposes 
(for example, ball-tracking 
technology, sound-based 
edge detection technology, 
and heat-based edge 
detection technology)  
shall not be used during 
Umpire Reviews.Any replay, stump 
microphone audio or 
technology detailed in 
paragraph 3.8.1 below.
ICC Technical 
OfficerNot required. The ICC shall appoint an 
independent technology 
expert (ICC Technical 
Officer)	to	be	present	
at every series in which 
the DRS is used to assist 
the third umpire and to 
protect the integrity of 
the DRS process.
 1.1.6 The Home Board shall ensure that a separate room is provided 
for the third umpire and that he/she has access to the television 
equipment and technology (where DRS is used) so as to be in 
the best position to facilitate the referral and/or consultation 
processes referred to in paragraphs 2 (Umpire Review) and 3 
(Player Review) below.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.104 8.105 2.3.3 If the television evidence is inconclusive as to whether or not a 
boundary has been scored, the default presumption shall be in 
favour of no boundary being awarded.
 2.3.4 Where the bowler’s end umpire wishes to use the assistance of 
the third umpire in this circumstance, he/she shall communicate 
with the third umpire by use of a two-way radio and the third 
umpire shall convey his/her decision to the bowler’s end umpire 
by the same method.
	 2.3.5	 The	third	umpire	may	initiate	contact	with	the	on-field	umpire	
by two-way radio if TV coverage shows a boundary line 
infringement or incident that appears not to have been acted 
upon	by	the	on-field	umpires.
 2.4 Batters Running to the Same End
	 2.4.1	 Where	both	batters	have	run	to	the	same	end	and	the	on-field	
umpires	are	uncertain	over	which	batter	made	her	ground	first,	
the	on-field	umpires	may	consult	with	the	third	umpire.
 2.4.2 The procedure set out in paragraph 2.3.4 shall apply.
 2.5 No Balls
 2.5.1 If the bowler’s end umpire is uncertain as to the fairness of the 
delivery following a dismissal, either affecting the validity of the 
dismissal or which batter is dismissed, he/she shall be entitled 
to	request	the	batter	to	delay	leaving	the	field	and	to	check	the	
fairness of the delivery with the third umpire. Communication 
with the third umpire shall be by two-way radio.
 2.5.2 The third umpire shall check all modes of No ball except for the 
bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action (subject to the proviso 
that the third umpire may review whether the bowler has used 
a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	
Bowling Regulations). The third umpire shall apply clause 21.5 
when deciding whether a No ball should have been called (and 
must	therefore	be	satisfied	that	none	of	the	three	conditions	in	
clause 21.5 have been met before calling a No ball).
 2.5.3 If the delivery was not a fair delivery, the bowler’s end umpire 
shall indicate that the batter is Not out and signal No ball (except 
in	the	case	of	a	dismissal	for	obstructing	the	field,	which	may	
still be effected despite a No ball being called, in which case the 
bowler’s end umpire shall indicate that the relevant batter is Out 
and additionally call a No ball).
 2.5.4 If a No ball is called following the check by the third umpire, the 
batting	side	shall	benefit	from	the	reversal	of	the	dismissal	and	
the	one	run	for	the	No	ball,	but	shall	not	benefit	from	any	runs	
that may subsequently have accrued from the delivery had the 
on-field	umpire	originally	called	a	No	ball.	Where	the	batters	
crossed while the ball was in the air before being caught, the 
batters shall remain at the same ends as if the striker had been 
dismissed, but no runs shall be credited to the striker even if one 
(or more) runs were completed prior to the catch being taken. 2.2 Caught Decisions, Obstructing the Field
 2.2.1 Where the bowler’s end umpire is unable to decide upon a Fair 
Catch	or	a	Bump	Ball,	or	if,	on	appeal	from	the	fielding	side,	the	
batter	obstructed	the	field,	he/she	shall	first	consult	with	the	
striker’s end umpire.
	 2.2.2	 Should	both	on-field	umpires	require	assistance	from	the	third 	
umpire	to	make	a	decision,	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	shall	firstly 	
take	a	decision	on-field	after	consulting	with	the	striker’s	end 	
umpire, before consulting by two-way radio with the third umpire. 
Such consultation shall be initiated by the bowler’s end umpire to 
the third umpire by making the shape of a TV screen with his/her 
hands, followed by a Soft Signal of Out or Not out made with the 
hands close to the chest at chest height. If the third umpire advises 
that	the	replay	evidence	is	inconclusive,	the	on-field	decision 	
communicated at the start of the consultation process shall stand.
 2.2.3 The third umpire shall determine whether the batter has been 
caught, whether the delivery was a Bump Ball, or if the batter 
obstructed	the	field.	However,	in	reviewing	the	television	
replay(s),	the	third	umpire	shall	first	check	the	fairness	of	the	
delivery for all decisions involving a catch (all modes of No ball 
except for the bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action, subject 
to the proviso that the third umpire may review whether the 
bowler	has	used	a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	
of the Illegal Bowling Regulations) and whether the batter has 
hit the ball. If the delivery was not a fair delivery or if it is clear to 
the third umpire that the batter did not hit the ball he/she shall 
indicate to the bowler’s end umpire that the batter is Not out 
caught, and in the case of an unfair delivery, advise the bowler’s 
end umpire to signal No ball. See also paragraph 2.5 below. 
Additionally, if it is clear to the third umpire that the batter is 
Out by another mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), or Not out by 
any mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), he/she shall notify the 
bowler’s end umpire so that the correct decision can be made.
 2.2.4 The third umpire shall communicate his/her decision as set out in 
paragraph 2.1.5.
 2.3 Boundary Decisions
 2.3.1 The bowler’s end umpire shall be entitled to refer to the third 
umpire for a decision on:
 2.3.1.1 whether a four or six has been scored;
	 2.3.1.2	 whether	a	fielder	had	any	part	of	her	person	in	contact	
with the ball when she touched the boundary; or
	 2.3.1.3	 whether	the	fielder	had	any	part	of	her	person	in	contact	
with the ball when she had any part of her person 
grounded beyond the boundary.
 2.3.2 A decision shall be made immediately and cannot be  
changed thereafter.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.106 8.107within 15 seconds of the decision being communicated. The bowler’s 
end umpire shall provide the relevant player with a prompt after 
10 seconds if the request has not been made at that time and the 
player	shall	request	the	review	immediately	thereafter.	If	the	on-field 	
umpires believe that a request has not been made within the 15 
second time limit, they shall decline the request for a Player Review.
	 3.2.3	 The	captain	may	consult	with	the	bowler	and	other	fielders,	and	
the two batters may consult with each other prior to deciding 
whether to request a Player Review. Under no circumstances is 
any player permitted to query an umpire about any aspect of a 
decision before deciding on whether or not to request a Player 
Review.	If	the	on-field	umpires	believe	that	the	captain	or	either	
batter has received direct or indirect input emanating other than 
from	the	players	on	the	field,	then	they	may	at	their	discretion	
decline the request for a Player Review. In particular, signals from 
the dressing room must not be given.
 3.2.4 No replays, either at normal speed or slow motion, shall be 
shown on a big screen to spectators until the 15 second time limit 
allowed for requesting a Player Review has elapsed. The only 
exception to this provision is where a Player Review of a caught 
decision is requested after the Umpire Review of a Fair Catch or 
Bump Ball has concluded, as detailed in paragraph 3.2.2 above 
(due to the fact that replays may have been shown on the big 
screen during that Umpire Review process).
	 3.2.5	 Where	either	on-field	umpire	initiates	an	Umpire	Review,	this	
does not preclude a player seeking a Player Review of a separate 
incident from the same delivery. The request for a Player Review 
may be made after the Umpire Review, provided the request is 
still within the 15 second time limit described in paragraph 3.2.2 
above. (See paragraphs 3.9.2 and 3.9.3 below for the process for 
addressing both an Umpire and Player Review).
 3.2.6 A request for a Player Review cannot be withdrawn once it has 
been made.
 3.3 The process of consultation
 3.3.1 On receipt of an eligible and timely request for a Player Review, 
the	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	make	the	sign	of	a	shape	of	a	
TV screen with his/her hands in the normal way.
	 3.3.2	 The	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	initiate	communication	with	
the	third	umpire	by	confirming;
 3.3.2.1 That a Player Review has been requested,
	 3.3.2.2	 The	mode	of	dismissal	for	which	the	relevant	on-field	
umpire adjudicated the appeal,
 3.3.2.3 The decision that has been made (Out or Not out), and;
 3.3.2.4 For LBW appeals, where relevant, if the bowler’s end 
umpire believed that the striker made no genuine attempt 
to play the ball with the bat (the default presumption of 
the third umpire in the absence of any information on 
this point from the bowler’s end umpire shall be that a 
genuine attempt to play the ball with the bat was made). 2.6 Cameras On or Over the Field of Play
	 2.6.1	 The	on-field	umpires	shall	be	entitled	to	refer	to	the	third	umpire	
for a decision as to whether the ball has at any time during the 
normal course of play come into contact with any part of the 
camera, its apparatus or its cables above the playing area, as 
contemplated in clause 20.1.3.
	 2.6.2	 Where	an	on-field	umpire	wishes	to	use	the	assistance	of	the	third 	
umpire in this circumstance, he/she shall communicate with the third 
umpire by use of a two-way radio and the third umpire shall convey 
his/her decision to the bowler’s end umpire by the same method.
 2.6.3 A decision shall be made immediately and cannot be changed 
thereafter. If the television evidence is inconclusive as to whether 
or not the ball has come into contact with any part of the camera, 
its apparatus or its cables above the playing area, the default 
presumption shall be in favour of no contact having been made.
	 2.6.4	 The	third	umpire	may	initiate	contact	with	the	on-field	umpire	
by two-way radio if TV coverage shows the ball to have been 
in contact with any part of the camera or its cables above the 
playing area as envisaged under this paragraph.
 3 PLAYER REVIEW
 The following paragraphs shall operate in addition to and in conjunction with 
paragraph 2 (Umpire Review).
 3.1 Circumstances in which a Player Review may be requested
 3.1.1 A player may request a review of any decision taken by the 
on-field	umpires	concerning	whether	or	not	a	batter	is	dismissed,	
with	the	exception	of	‘Timed	Out’	(Player	Review).
 3.1.2 No other decisions made by the umpires are eligible for a Player 
Review with the exception of Fair Catch/Bump Ball (even after the 
third umpire has been consulted and the decision communicated).
 3.1.3 Only the batter involved in a dismissal may request a Player 
Review of an Out decision and only the captain (or acting 
captain)	of	the	fielding	team	may	request	a	Player	Review	of	a	
Not out decision.
 3.1.4 A decision concerning whether or not a batter is dismissed that 
could have been the subject of a Umpire Review under paragraph 
2 is eligible for a Player Review as soon as it is clear that the 
on-field	umpire	has	chosen	not	to	initiate	the	Umpire	Review.
 3.2 The manner of requesting the Player Review
	 3.2.1	 The	request	shall	be	made	by	the	player	making	a	‘T’	sign	with	
both forearms at head height.
 3.2.2 The total time elapsed between the ball becoming dead and the 
review request being made shall be no more than 15 seconds. The 
only exception permitted shall be when an Umpire Review for Fair 
Catch or Bump Ball (as permitted in paragraph 2.2 above) is required 
to answer an appeal for a caught decision, in which case either 
team is able to request a Player Review of that caught decision ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.108 8.109 3.4.3 This Decision Review System (DRS) and Third Umpire Protocol 
includes a category of Umpire’s Call, which shall be the 
conclusion reported where the technology indicates a marginal 
decision	in	respect	of	either	the	point	of	first	interception	or	
whether the ball would have hit the stumps.
 3.4.4 PITCHING
 3.4.4.1 The interpretation of “pitches in line between wicket and 
wicket” in clause 36.1.2 shall refer to the position of the 
centre of the ball at the point of pitching, in relation to 
the Pitching Zone.
	 3.4.4.2	 The	Pitching	Zone	is	defined	as	a	two	dimensional	area	
on the pitch between both sets of stumps with its 
boundaries consisting of the base of both sets of stumps 
and a line between the outside of the outer stumps at 
each end.
 3.4.4.3 Where applicable, the ball-tracking technology shall 
report that the ball pitched in one of the following three 
areas in relation to the Pitching Zone:
In Line The centre of the ball was inside the  
Pitching Zone.
Outside Off The centre of the ball was outside,  
and to the off side of, the Pitching Zone.
Outside Leg The centre of the ball was outside,  
and to the leg side of, the Pitching Zone.
 3.4.4.4 Subject to the satisfaction of the other elements of 
clause 36, the batter can be Out if the ball-tracking 
technology reports that the ball pitched Outside Off or 
In Line, but the batter shall be Not out if the ball pitched 
Outside Leg.
 3.4.5 IMPACT
	 3.4.5.1	 The	interpretation	of	“the	(first)	point	of	impact,	even	
if in above the level of the bails, is between wicket and 
wicket” in clause 36.1.4 shall refer to the position of the 
ball	at	the	point	of	first	interception,	in	relation	to	the	
Impact Zone.
	 3.4.5.2	 The	Impact	Zone	is	defined	as	a	three	dimensional	space	
extending	between	both	wickets	to	an	indefinite	height	
and with its boundaries consisting of a line between the 
outside of the outer stumps at each end. 3.3.3 A two-way consultation process shall begin to investigate 
whether there is anything that the third umpire can see or hear 
which	would	indicate	that	the	on-field	umpire	should	change	his/
her original decision.
 3.3.4 The third umpire shall not withhold any factual information which 
may help in the decision making process. In particular, in reviewing 
a dismissal, if the third umpire believes that the batter may instead 
be Out by any other mode of dismissal, he/she shall advise the 
on-field	umpire	accordingly.	The	process	of	consultation	described 	
in this paragraph in respect of such other mode of dismissal shall 
then be conducted as if the batter has been given Not out.
 3.3.5 The third umpire shall initially check all modes of No ball except 
for the bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action (subject to the 
proviso that the third umpire may review whether the bowler has 
used	a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	
Bowling	Regulations),	where	appropriate	advising	the	on-field	
umpire accordingly.
 3.3.6 If despite the available technology, the third umpire is unable 
to	decide	with	a	high	degree	of	confidence	whether	the	original	
on-field	decision	should	be	changed,	then	he/she	shall	report	
that	the	replays	are	‘inconclusive’,	and	that	the	on-field	decision	
shall stand. The third umpire shall not give answers conveying 
likelihoods or probabilities.
 3.3.7 In circumstances where the television technology (all or parts thereof) 
is not available to the third umpire or fails for whatever reason, the 
third	umpire	shall	advise	the	on-field	umpire	of	this	fact	but	still 	
provide any relevant factual information that may be ascertained from 
the available television replays and other technology.
	 3.3.8	 The	on-field	umpire	shall	then	make	his/her	decision	based	on	
the information provided by the third umpire, any other factual 
information offered by the third umpire and his/her recollection 
and opinion of the original incident.
	 3.3.9	 The	on-field	umpire	shall	reverse	his/her	decision	if	the	nature	of	the 	
supplementary information received from the third umpire leads 
him/her to conclude that his/her original decision was incorrect.
 3.4 Review of LBW Decisions
 3.4.1 In assessing whether a batter is Out LBW in accordance with 
clause	36,	the	third	umpire	shall	first	judge	whether	the	delivery	
is fair (as set out in clause 36.1.1), and second, whether or not the 
ball has touched the bat before being intercepted by any part of 
the striker’s person (as set out in clause 36.1.3).
 3.4.2 If the batter is still eligible to be Out, the ball-tracking technology 
shall then present three pieces of information to the third umpire 
relating to the path of the ball:
 3.4.2.1 The point of pitching (where applicable) (PITCHING).
	 3.4.2.2	 The	position	of	the	ball	at	the	point	of	first	interception	
(IMPACT).
 3.4.2.3 Whether the ball would have hit the wicket (WICKET).ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.110 8.111 3.4.6.3 The ball-tracking technology shall report whether the 
ball would have hit the wicket with reference to the 
following three categories:
Hitting The ball was hitting the wicket, and the centre of 
the ball was inside the Wicket Zone.
Umpire’s 
CallThe ball was hitting the wicket, but the centre 
of the ball was not inside the Wicket Zone.
Missing The ball was missing the wicket.
 3.4.6.4 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, the ball-
tracking technology must report that the ball was Hitting 
for the batter to be eligible to be given Out, otherwise 
the batter shall remain Not out.
  However, where the evidence shows that the ball was 
Hitting,	the	point	of	first	interception	was	In	Line,	and	
the ball pitched In Line or Outside Off, but that:
	 •	 The	point	of	first	interception	was	300cm	or	more	
from the stumps; or
	 •	 The	point	of	first	interception	was	more	than	250cm	
but less than 300cm from the stumps and the distance 
between	the	point	of	pitching	and	the	point	of	first	
interception was less than 40cm,
	 	 the	on-field	decision	shall	stand	(that	is,	Not	out).
 3.4.6.5 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, the 
ball-tracking technology must report that the ball was 
Missing	for	the	on-field	decision	to	be	reversed	to	Not	
out, otherwise the batter shall remain eligible to be 
given Out.
 3.4.7 When the ball strikes the batter on the full, and the evidence 
provided by the ball-tracking technology indicates that the ball 
would have pitched before striking or passing the wicket, there 
will be no information available from that delivery that will allow 
the ball-tracking technology to accurately predict the height of 
the ball after pitching.
 3.4.8 With regard to determining whether the ball would have hit the 
wicket under these circumstances, the ball-tracking technology 
shall project the line of the ball in accordance with clause 36.2.3 
(it is to be assumed that the path of the ball before interception 
would have continued after interception, irrespective of whether 
the ball might have pitched subsequently or not), and display the 
simulated path of the ball from directly above the wicket.
 3.4.9 The third umpire shall advise the bowler’s end umpire only on 
the	point	of	first	interception	and	whether	the	ball	would	have	
hit the stumps (in line with the process set out in paragraph 3.4 
above), but shall make no comment on the predicted height 
of the ball after pitching, which shall remain a judgment of the 
bowler’s end umpire. 3.4.5.3 The ball-tracking technology shall report that the 
point	of	first	interception	was	in	one	of	the	following	
categories in relation to the Impact Zone:
In Line The centre of the ball was inside the Impact Zone.
Umpire’s 
CallSome part of the ball was inside the Impact 
Zone, but the centre of the ball was outside the 
Impact Zone, with the further sub-category of 
‘Umpire’s	Call	(off	side)’	where	the	centre	of	the	
ball was to the off side of the Impact Zone and 
the bowler’s end umpire communicates to the 
third umpire that no genuine attempt to play 
the ball was made by the batter.
Outside No part of the ball was inside the Impact Zone, 
with	the	further	sub-categories	of	‘Outside	
(off)’	and	‘Outside	(leg)’	to	indicate	the	location	
of	the	point	of	first	interception	in	relation	to	
the Impact Zone when the bowler’s end umpire 
communicates to the third umpire that no 
genuine attempt to play the ball was made by 
the batter.
 3.4.5.4 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, and it is judged 
that the batter has made a genuine attempt to play the ball, 
the ball-tracking technology must report that the point of 
first	interception	was	In	Line	for	the	batter	to	be	eligible	to 	
be given Out, otherwise the batter shall remain Not out.
 3.4.5.5 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batter has made no genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that the point of impact was In Line, or Umpire’s Call (off 
side), or Outside (off) for the batter to be eligible to be 
given Out, otherwise the batter shall remain Not out.
 3.4.5.6 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batter has made a genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	Outside	for	the	
decision to be reversed to Not out, otherwise the batter 
shall remain eligible to be given Out.
 3.4.5.7 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batter has made no genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	Outside	(leg)	for	
the decision to be reversed to Not out, otherwise the 
batter shall remain eligible to be given Out.
 3.4.6 WICKET
 3.4.6.1 The interpretation of whether “the ball would have hit 
the wicket” in clause 36.1.5 shall refer to the position of 
the ball as it either hits or passes the wicket, in relation 
to the Wicket Zone.
	 3.4.6.2	 The	Wicket	Zone	is	defined	as	a	two	dimensional	area	
whose boundaries are the outside of the outer stumps, 
the base of the stumps and the bottom of the bails.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.112 8.113	 3.6.8	 A	Player	Review	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	may	be	reinstated	by 	
the ICC Match Referee at his/her sole discretion (if appropriate after 
consultation	with	the	ICC	Technical	Official	and/or	the	television 	
broadcast director) if the Player Review could not properly be 
concluded due to a failure of the technology. Any such decision shall 
be	final	and	shall	be	taken	as	soon	as	possible,	being	communicated 	
to both teams once all the relevant facts have been ascertained by 
the	ICC	Match	Referee.	A	Player	Review	categorised	 as	‘Unsuccessful’ 	
shall not be reinstated if, despite any technical failures, the correct 
decision could still have been made using the other available 
technology.	Similarly,	a	Player	Review	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’ 	
shall not be reinstated where the technology worked as intended, 
but the evidence gleaned from its use was inconclusive.
 3.6.9 The third umpire shall be responsible for counting the number 
Player	Reviews	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	and	shall	advise	the	
on-field	umpires	once	either	team	has	exhausted	their	allowance	
for the innings.
 3.6.10 The scoreboard shall display, for the innings in progress, the 
number of Player Reviews remaining available to each team.
CATEGORY OF 
PLAYER REVIEWOUTCOME  
OF PLAYER 
REVIEW CONSEQUENCE OF 
PLAYER REVIEW
Successful  
(paragraph 3.6.2)On-field	decision	
reversed Does not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
Unsuccessful 
(paragraphs 3.6.3  
and 3.6.5)On-field	decision	
unchangedCounts towards  
innings limit set out  
in paragraph 3.6.1
Unchanged	–	
Umpire’s Call 
(paragraph 3.6.4)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
No	ball	–	no	
evaluation required 
(paragraph 3.6.6)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
Failure of technology 
(paragraph 3.6.8)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
 3.7 Dead ball
 3.7.1 If following a Player Review request, an original decision of 
Out is changed to Not out, then the ball is still deemed to have 
become dead when the original decision was made (as per clause 
20.1.1.3).	The	batting	side,	while	benefiting	from	the	reversal	of	the	
dismissal,	shall	not	benefit	from	any	runs	that	may	subsequently	
have	accrued	from	the	delivery	had	the	on-field	umpire	originally	
made a Not out decision, other than any No ball penalty that 
could arise under paragraph 3.3.5 above.
 3.7.2 If an original decision of Not out is changed to Out, the ball 
shall retrospectively be deemed to have become dead from the 
moment of the dismissal event. All subsequent events, including 
any runs scored, shall be ignored.	 3.5	 The	process	for	communicating	the	final	decision
 3.5.1 For Player Reviews concerning potential dismissals, the relevant 
on-field	umpire	shall	indicate	Out	by	raising	his/her	finger	above	
his/her head in a normal yet prominent manner or indicate Not 
out	by	the	call	of	‘not	out’	and	by	crossing	his/her	hands	in	a	
horizontal position side to side in front and above his/her waist 
three	times.	Where	the	decision	is	a	reversal	of	the	on-field	
umpire’s	previous	decision,	he/she	shall	make	the	‘revoke	last	
signal’ indication immediately prior to the above.
 3.5.2 If the mode of dismissal is not obvious or not the same as that 
on which the original decision was based, then the umpire shall 
advise the scorers via the third umpire.
 3.6 Number of Player Review requests permitted
 3.6.1 In each innings, each team shall be allowed to make a maximum 
of	one	Player	Review	request	that	is	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	
(as set out in paragraph 3.6.3 below).
 3.6.2 Where a request for a Player Review results in the original 
on-field	decision	being	reversed,	then	the	Player	Review	shall	
be	categorised	as	‘Successful’	and	shall	not	count	towards	the	
innings limit.
 3.6.3 Where a request for a Player Review results in the original 
on-field	decision	remaining	unchanged	(other	than	in	the	
circumstances set out in paragraphs 3.6.4, 3.6.6 or 3.6.8), the Player 
Review shall be categorised as ’Unsuccessful’.
 3.6.4 Where a request for a Player Review of an LBW decision results 
in	the	on-field	decision	remaining	unchanged	solely	on	the	basis	
of an Umpire’s Call, the Player Review shall be categorised as 
‘Unchanged	–	Umpire’s	Call’.	A	Player	Review	categorised	as	
‘Unchanged	–	Umpire’s	Call’	shall	not	count	towards	the	innings	
limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
 3.6.5 Where, following a request for a Player Review, the original 
on-field	decision	of	Out	is	unchanged,	but	for	a	different	mode	
of	dismissal	from	the	original	on-field	decision,	then	the	Player	
Review shall still be categorised as ’Unsuccessful’.
 3.6.6 Where, following a request for a Player Review, the original 
on-field	decision	of	Not	out	is	unchanged	on	account	of	the	
delivery being a No ball (for any reason), thereby not requiring 
any further evaluation, the Player Review shall not be counted 
as	‘Unsuccessful’	and	accordingly	shall	not	count	towards	the	
innings limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
 3.6.7 Where a Player Review and an Umpire Review are requested 
from the same delivery and the decision of the third umpire from 
the Umpire Review renders the Player Review unnecessary (see 
paragraphs 3.9.2 and 3.9.3), the Player Review request shall be 
disregarded and accordingly shall not count towards the innings 
limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08 08
8.114 8.115 3.9.3 If the Umpire Review leads the third umpire to make a decision 
of Out, then this shall be displayed in the usual manner and the 
Player Review shall not be undertaken. If the Umpire Review 
results in a Not out decision, then the third umpire shall make 
no public decision but shall proceed to address the request for a 
Player Review.
 3.9.4 For illustration, following an LBW appeal which is given Not out 
by the bowler’s end umpire, the striker sets off for a run, is sent 
back and there is an appeal for her run out. The players request 
that the LBW decision is reviewed and the umpires request that 
the	run	out	be	reviewed.	The	four	criteria	above	are	satisfied,	so	
the	run	out	referral	is	determined	first.	Should	the	appeal	for	run	
out be Out, then there is no requirement for the LBW review to 
take place.
 3.9.5 In all other circumstances, the incidents shall be addressed in 
chronological	order.	If	the	conclusion	from	the	first	incident	is	
that a batter is dismissed, then the ball would be deemed to have 
become dead at that point, rendering investigation of the second 
incident unnecessary.
 4 INTERPRETATION OF PLAYING CONDITIONS
 4.1 When using a replay to determine the moment at which the wicket has 
been put down (as per clause 29.1), the third umpire shall deem this to 
be	the	first	frame	in	which	one	of	the	bails	is	shown	(or	can	be	deduced)	
to have lost all contact with the top of the stumps and subsequent 
frames show the bail permanently removed from the top of the stumps.
 4.2 Where LED Wickets are used (as provided for in paragraph 3.8.1.6) 
the moment at which the wicket has been put down (as per clause 
29.1)	shall	be	deemed	to	be	the	first	frame	in	which	the	LED	lights	are	
illuminated and subsequent frames show the bail permanently removed 
from the top of the stumps. 3.8 Use of technology
 3.8.1 The following technology may be used by the third umpire during 
a Player Review:
 3.8.1.1 Replays, at any speed, from any available broadcast camera
 3.8.1.2 Sound from the stump microphones with the replays at 
normal speed and slow motion
 3.8.1.3 Approved ball-tracking technology: 
 • HawkEye (HawkEye Innovations), or;
 • VirtualEye (ARL)
 3.8.1.4 Approved sound-based edge detection technology:
 • Real-Time Snickometer (BBG Sports), or;
 • UltraEdge (HawkEye Innovations)
 3.8.1.5 Approved heat-based edge detection technology:
 • Hot Spot cameras (BBG Sports)
 3.8.1.6 LED Wickets (using the lights to indicate if the wicket is 
broken, as set out in paragraph 4.2):
 • Zing Bails and Stumps
 3.8.2 In addition, other forms of technology may be used subject to 
the	ICC	being	satisfied	that	the	required	standards	of	accuracy	
and	time	efficiency	can	be	met.
 3.8.3 Where practical usage or further testing indicates that any of the 
above forms of technology cannot reliably provide accurate and 
timely information, then it may be removed prior to or during a 
match.	The	final	decision	regarding	the	technology	to	be	used	
in a given match shall be taken by the ICC Match Referee in 
consultation	with	the	ICC	Technical	Official,	ICC	management	and	
the competing teams’ governing bodies.
 3.9 Combining Umpire Review with Player Review
 3.9.1 If an Umpire Review (under paragraph 2) and a request for a 
Player Review (under paragraph 3) are made following the 
same delivery but relating to separate modes of dismissal, the 
following process shall apply.
 3.9.2 The Umpire Review shall be carried out prior to the Player Review 
if all of the following conditions apply:
	 3.9.2.1	 The	Player	Review	has	been	requested	by	the	fielding	side.
 3.9.2.2 The Umpire Review and the Player Review both relate to 
the dismissal of the same batter.
 3.9.2.3 If the batter is out, the number of runs scored from the 
delivery would be the same for both modes of dismissal.
 3.9.2.4 If the batter is out, the batter on strike for the next 
delivery would be the same for both modes of dismissal.ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS08
8.116
ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08
8.117APPENDIX E
CALCULATIONS
Table 1: Calculation sheet for use when a delay or interruptions occur  
in the First Innings 
Time 
Net playing time available at start of the match  380 minutes (A) 
Time innings in progress  ___________  (B) 
Playing time lost  ___________  (C) 
Extra time available  ___________  (D) 
Time made up from reduced interval  ___________  (E) 
Effective	playing	time	lost	[C	–	(D	+	E)]		 ___________		 (F)	
Remaining	playing	time	available	(A	–	F)		 ___________		 (G)	
G divided by 3.8 (to 2 decimal places)  ___________  (H) 
Max	overs	per	team	[H/2]	(round	up	fractions)	 ___________		(	I	)	
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[I/5]		 ___________	
Duration of Powerplay Overs  ___________ + ___________ 
(initial, batting side)
Rescheduled Playing Hours 
First session to commence or recommence  ___________  ( J ) 
Length	of	innings	[I	x	3.8]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________	 (K)	
Rescheduled	first	innings	cessation	time	[J	+	(K	–	B)]		 ___________	 (L)
Length of interval  ___________  (M) 
Second	innings	commencement	time	[L	+	M]		 ___________		 (N)	
Rescheduled	second	innings	cessation	time	[N	+	K]		 ___________	*(O)
 
*	Ensure	that	the	match	is	not	finishing	earlier	than	the	original	or	rescheduled	
cessation time by applying clause 13.7.2. If so, add at least one over to each team 
and recalculate (I) to (O) above to prevent this from happening. Table 2: Calculation sheet to check whether an interruption during  
the First Innings should terminate the innings 
Proposed re-start time  ___________  (P) 
Rescheduled cut-off time allowing for full use  
of any extra time provision  ___________  (Q) 
Minutes between P and Q  ___________  (R) 
Potential	overs	to	be	bowled	[R/3.8]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________		(S)	
Number	of	complete	overs	faced	to	date	in	first	innings		 ___________		(T)	
If S is greater than T then revert to Table 1 
If	S	is	less	than	or	equal	to	T	then	the	first	innings	is	terminated	–	go	to	Table	3	
Table 3: Calculation sheet for the start of the Second Innings 
Maximum overs to be bowled: 
(If	first	innings	was	terminated,	S	from	Table	2)		 ___________		(A)	
Scheduled	length	of	innings:	[A	x	3.8]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________		(B)	
Start time  ___________  (C) 
Scheduled	cessation	time	[C	+	B]		 ___________		(D)	
Overs per bowler and fielding restrictions 
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[A/5]	 ___________		overs	
Duration of Powerplay overs  ___________ + ___________  overs 
(initial, batting side)   
 ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS08
8.118
ICC WOMEN’S CHAMPIONSHIP 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 08
8.119Table 4: Calculation sheet for use when interruption occurs  
after the start of the Second Innings 
Time 
Time at start of innings  ___________  (A) 
Time at start of interruption  ___________  (B) 
Time innings in progress  ___________  (C) 
Restart time  ___________  (D) 
Length	of	interruption	[D	–	B]		 ___________		(E)	
Additional time available: ___________  (F) 
(Any	unused	provision	for	‘Extra	Time’	 
or for earlier than scheduled start of second innings)  
Total	playing	time	lost	[E	–	F]		 ___________		(G)	
Overs 
Maximum overs at start of innings  ___________ (H) 
Overs	lost	[G/3.8]	(rounded	down)		 ___________	(I)	
Adjusted	maximum	length	of	innings	[H	–	I]		 ___________	(J)	
Rescheduled	length	of	innings	[J	x	3.8	rounded	up]		 ___________		(K)	
Amended	cessation	time	of	innings	[D	+	(K	–	C)]		 ___________	(L)	
Overs per bowler and Fielding Restrictions 
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[J/5]	 ___________		overs
Duration of Powerplay overs  ___________ + ___________  overs 
(initial, batting side)APPENDIX F
USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
The use of electronic communication devices and equipment of any kind to 
communicate	with	players	on	the	field	of	play	shall	not	be	permitted.Effective from 1 September 201909
ICC WOMEN’S  
TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
9.1ICC WOMEN’S  
TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL  
PLAYING CONDITIONS
Effective 1 September 2019, the following changes shall be applied to these 
playing conditions for ‘Green’ status Members.
Clause 1.2  Nomination and replacement of players
  Replace ICC Match Referee with umpires
Clause 1.3  Captain
1.3.5  Replace ICC Match Referee with umpires
Clause 2.1  Umpires appointment and attendance shall apply subject  
to the following:
2.1.2.1	 	 The	Home	Board	shall	appoint	both	on-field	umpires,	a	reserve	
umpire is optional.
2.1.3  Shall not apply
2.1.4.1  Shall not apply and shall be replaced by the following:
  The Home Board shall appoint the umpires from its own panel
2.1.5  Shall not apply
2.1.6  Remove reference to ICC Match Referee
Clause 2.3  Consultation with Home Board
  Before the match the umpires shall consult with the Home Board / 
Ground Authority
Clause 2.8  Suspension of play in dangerous or unreasonable circumstances
  Shall apply subject to the following:
  Remove reference to ICC Match Referee
2.8.5  If light meters are available to the Home Board they shall be used.
2.8.6	 	 Shall	only	apply	to	venues	where	the	artificial	lights	are	of	 
sufficient	standard
2.8.9  Replace ICC Match Referee with umpires
Clause 4.2  Approval and control of balls
4.2.1  Remove reference to Kookaburra Turf or its equivalent.
4.2.2  Replace at least 6 new balls with at least 4 new balls
Clause 6.3  Selection and preparation of the pitch
6.3.2	 	 Onfield	umpires	if	there	is	no	reserve	umpire
6.3.3  Replace ICC Match Referee with umpires
Clause 6.4 Changing the pitch
  Replace ICC Match Referee with umpires
Clause  6.5 Non turf pitches
  Shall be replaced by the following:
	 	 All	T20I	matches	shall	be	played	on	natural	turf	or	artificial	pitches. 	 
The use of PVA and other adhesives in the preparation of turf pitches 
is not permitted.
Clause 9  Preparation and Maintenance of the Playing surface
  Shall apply to turf pitches only except 9.1.5 and 9.1.6 which may also 
apply	to	artificial	pitches
9.8  Remove reference to ICC Match RefereeICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS09
9.2 Clause 10.2 Covering the pitch during the match
  Shall only apply if covers are available
 Clause 10.3 Removal of covers
  Shall only apply if covers are available
Clause 13.4 The Toss
  Replace ICC Match Referee with umpires
Clause 16.2 ICC Match Referee awarding a match
  All references to ICC Match Referee shall be replaced by umpires
Clause 19.1
19.1.4	 	 Determining	the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play
  Shall not apply and shall be replaced by:
  Any venue that cannot meet the minimum boundary sizes can apply 
to the ICC to be considered for an exemption.
 Clause 19.2 Identifying and marking the boundary
  Reference to rope may not apply
Clause 21.2	 Fair	delivery	–	the	arm
  Remove reference to ICC Match Referee
Clause 21.3	 Ball	thrown	or	delivered	underarm	–	action	by	umpires
21.3.3  Replace ICC Match Referee with ICC Umpires and Referees Department
 Clause 40.1 Out Timed Out
40.1.3  Clause 16.2 Awarding a match
Clause 41
 41.1 to 41.19 Unfair Play
  Replace ICC Match Referee with ICC Umpires and Referees Department
Clause 42  Players conduct
  Replace ICC Match Referee with ICC Umpires and Referees Department
Appendix A
Clause 9.8  Replace ICC Match Referee with umpires
Appendix B 
Clause 2  The Wickets
  Provisions must be made to place stumps into the ground, spring 
loaded stumps or use of bases are not permitted
Appendix C
Clause 3.3.1 Used of sightscreens is not mandatory but if they are used they 
must be provided at both ends of the ground.
Appendix F Procedure for the Super Over
Clause 1  Replace ICC Match Referee with umpires. The umpires’ decision shall 
be	final.
Clause 3  Remove reference to ICC Match Referee
9.3CONTENTS
1 THE PLAYERS 9.5
2 THE UMPIRES 9.8
3 THE SCORERS 9.13
4 THE BALL 9.14
5 THE BAT 9.14
6 THE PITCH 9.16
7 THE CREASES 9.18
8 THE WICKETS 9.19
9 PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PLAYING AREA 9.20
10 COVERING THE PITCH 9.22
11 INTERVALS 9.22
12 START OF PLAY; CESSATION OF PLAY 9.23
13 INNINGS 9.25
14 THE FOLLOW-ON 9.29
15 DECLARATION AND FORFEITURE 9.29
16 THE RESULT 9.29
17 THE OVER 9.32
18 SCORING RUNS 9.33
19 BOUNDARIES 9.37
20 DEAD BALL 9.39
21 NO BALL 9.41
22 WIDE BALL 9.45
23 BYE AND LEG BYE 9.46
24 FIELDER’S ABSENCE; SUBSTITUTES 9.48
25 BATTER’S INNINGS 9.50
26 PRACTICE ON THE FIELD 9.51
27 THE WICKET-KEEPER 9.52
28 THE FIELDER 9.54
29 THE WICKET IS DOWN 9.57
30 BATTER OUT OF HER GROUND 9.58
31 APPEALS 9.59
32 BOWLED 9.60
33 CAUGHT 9.61
34 HIT THE BALL TWICE 9.62
35 HIT WICKET 9.63
36 LEG BEFORE WICKET 9.63
37 OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD 9.64
38 RUN OUT 9.66ICC WOMEN’S  
TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL  
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS09
9.4
PREAMBLE  
THE SPIRIT OF CRICKET
Cricket owes much of its appeal and enjoyment to the fact that it should be played 
not only according to the Laws (which are incorporated within these Playing 
Conditions), but also within the Spirit of Cricket. 
The major responsibility for ensuring fair play rests with the captains, but extends to all 
players,	match	officials	and,	especially	in	junior	cricket,	teachers,	coaches	and	parents.
Respect is central to the Spirit of Cricket.
Respect your captain, team-mates, opponents and the authority of the umpires.
Play hard and play fair.
Accept the umpire’s decision.
Create a positive atmosphere by your own conduct, and encourage others to  
do likewise.
Show self-discipline, even when things go against you.
Congratulate the opposition on their successes, and enjoy those of your own team.
Thank	the	officials	and	your	opposition	at	the	end	of	the	match,	whatever	the	result.
Cricket is an exciting game that encourages leadership, friendship and teamwork, 
which brings together people from different nationalities, cultures and religions, 
especially when played within the Spirit of Cricket.
 1 THE PLAYERS
 1.1 Number of players
  A match is played between two sides, each of eleven players, one of 
whom shall be captain.
 1.2 Nomination and replacement of players
 1.2.1 Each captain shall nominate 11 players plus a maximum of 4 
substitute	fielders	in	writing	to	the	ICC	Match	Referee	before	the	
toss. Other than set out in clause 1.2.7, no player (member of the 
playing eleven) may be changed after the nomination without 
the consent of the opposing captain.
	 1.2.2	 Only	those	nominated	as	substitute	fielders	shall	be	entitled	to 	
act	as	substitute	fielders	during	the	match,	unless	the	ICC	Match 	
Referee, in exceptional circumstances, allows subsequent additions.
 1.2.3 All those nominated including those nominated as substitute 
fielders,	as	well	as	any	Concussion	Replacements,	must	be	eligible	to 	
play for that particular team and by such nomination the nominees 
shall warrant that they are so eligible.
 1.2.4 In addition, by their nomination, the nominees shall be deemed 
to have agreed to abide by all the applicable ICC Regulations 
pertaining to international cricket and in particular, the Clothing 
and Equipment Regulations, the Code of Conduct for Players and 
Player Support Personnel (hereafter referred to as the ICC Code 
of Conduct), the Anti-Racism Code for Players and Player Support 
Personnel, the Anti-Doping Code and the Anti-Corruption Code.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09
9.539 STUMPED 9.67
40 TIMED OUT 9.67
41 UNFAIR PLAY 9.68
42 PLAYERS’ CONDUCT 9.80
APPENDIX A DEFINITIONS 9.84
1 The match 9.84
2 Implements and equipment 9.84
3 The playing area 9.85
4 Positioning 9.85
5 Umpires and decision-making 9.86
6 Batters 9.87
7 Fielders 9.88
8 Substitutes and Concussion Replacements 9.88
9 Bowlers 9.88
10 The ball 9.89
11 Runs 9.89
12 The person 9.89
13 Off side/on side; in front of/behind the popping crease. 9.90
APPENDIX B EQUIPMENT 9.91
1 The Bat 9.91
2 The wickets 9.94
3 Wicket-keeping gloves 9.95
APPENDIX C THE VENUE 9.96
1 The pitch and the creases 9.96
2	 Restriction	on	the	placement	of	fielders	 9.97
3 Advertising on grounds, perimeter boards and sight-screens 9.98
4	 Markings	on	outfield	 9.98
APPENDIX D DECISION REVIEW SYSTEM (DRS)  
AND THIRD UMPIRE PROTOCOL 9.99
1 General 9.99
2 Umpire Review 9.101
3 Player Review 9.104
4 Interpretation of Playing Conditions 9.113
APPENDIX E CALCULATIONS 9.114
APPENDIX F PROCEDURE FOR THE SUPER OVER 9.117
APPENDIX G USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT 9.120ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.6 9.7 1.2.8 The ICC Match Referee should ordinarily approve a Concussion 
Replacement Request if the replacement is a like-for-like player 
whose inclusion will not excessively advantage her team for the 
remainder of the match.
 1.2.8.1  In assessing whether the nominated Concussion 
Replacement should be considered a like-for-like player, 
the ICC Match Referee should consider the likely role 
the concussed player would have played during the 
remainder of the match, and the normal role that would 
be performed by the nominated Concussion Replacement.
 1.2.8.2 If the ICC Match Referee believes that the inclusion 
of the nominated Concussion Replacement, when 
performing their normal role, would excessively 
advantage their team, the Match Referee may impose 
such conditions upon the identity and involvement of 
the	Concussion	Replacement	as	he/she	sees	fit,	in	line	
with the overriding objective of facilitating a like-for-like 
replacement for the concussed player.
 1.2.8.3 The ICC Match Referee may, in reviewing a Concussion 
Replacement Request made in accordance with clause 
1.2.7.3, request any such further information as may be 
required in order to make the determination required 
under clauses 1.2.8.1 and 1.2.8.2.
 1.2.9 The decision of the ICC Match Referee in relation to any 
Concussion	Replacement	Request	shall	be	final	and	neither	team	
shall have any right of appeal.
 1.2.10 Once the Concussion Replacement has been approved by the ICC 
Match Referee, the replaced player shall play no further part in 
the match.
 1.2.11 Both the Concussion Replacement and the replaced player 
shall be considered to have played in the match for records and 
statistical purposes.
 1.3 Captain
 1.3.1 If at any time the captain is not available, a deputy shall act for her.
 1.3.2 If a captain is not available to nominate the players, then any 
person associated with that team may act as her deputy to do so. 
See clause 1.2.
 1.3.3 At any time after the nomination of the players, only a 
nominated player can act as deputy in discharging the duties 
and responsibilities of the captain as stated in these Playing 
Conditions, including at the toss. See clause 13.4 (The toss).
 1.4 Responsibility of captains
  The captains are responsible at all times for ensuring that play is conducted 
within The Spirit of Cricket as well as within these Playing Conditions. 1.2.5 A player or player support personnel who has been suspended 
from participating in a match shall not, from the toss of the coin 
and for the remainder of the match thereafter:
 1.2.5.1 Be nominated as, or carry out any of the duties or 
responsibilities	of	a	substitute	fielder,	or
 1.2.5.2 Enter any part of the playing area (which shall include 
the	field	of	play	and	the	area	between	the	boundary	
and the perimeter boards) at any time, including any 
scheduled or unscheduled breaks in play.
 1.2.6 A player who has been suspended from participating in a 
match shall be permitted from the toss of the coin and for the 
remainder of the match thereafter be permitted to enter the 
players’ dressing room provided that the players’ dressing room 
(or any part thereof) for the match is not within the playing area 
described in clause 1.2.5.2 above (for example, the player is not 
permitted	to	enter	the	on-field	‘dug-out’).
 1.2.7 If a player sustains a concussion or suspected concussion as a 
result of a head or neck injury during the course of the relevant 
match, a Concussion Replacement may be permitted in the 
following circumstances:
 1.2.7.1 the head or neck injury must have been sustained during 
play and within the playing area described in clause 
1.2.5.2 above;
 1.2.7.2 a concussion or suspected concussion must have been 
formally diagnosed by the Team Medical Representative 
or in consultation with the Match Day Doctor;
 1.2.7.3 the Team Medical Representative or Team Manager shall 
submit a Concussion Replacement Request to the ICC 
Match Referee on a standard form, which shall:
 1.2.7.3.1 identify the player who has sustained the 
concussion or suspected concussion; 
 1.2.7.3.2 specify the incident in which the concussion or 
suspected concussion was sustained, including 
the time at which it occurred;
	 1.2.7.3.3	 confirm	that,	following	an	examination,	
the Team Medical Representative, or in 
consultation with the Match Day Doctor, 
believes or suspects that the player has 
sustained a concussion as a result of the 
incident	specified	in	1.2.7.3.2	above;	and	
 1.2.7.3.4 identify the requested Concussion 
Replacement, who shall be a like-for-like 
replacement for the player who has sustained 
the concussion or suspected concussion.
 1.2.7.4  The Concussion Replacement Request must be submitted 
as	soon	as	possible	after	the	incident	specified	in	1.2.7.3.2	if 	
a Concussion Replacement is to be permitted.
 ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.8 9.9 2.2 Change of umpire
  An umpire shall not be changed during the match, other than in 
exceptional circumstances, unless he/she is injured or ill.
 2.3 Consultation with Home Board
  Before the match the umpires shall consult with the Home Board  
to determine;
 2.3.1 the balls to be used during the match. See clause 4 (The ball).
 2.3.2 the hours of play and the times and durations of any agreed 
intervals. 
 2.3.3 which clock or watch and back-up time piece is to be used during 
the match.
	 2.3.4	 the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play.	See	clause	19	(Boundaries).
 2.3.5 the use of covers. See clause 10 (Covering the pitch).
 2.3.6 any special conditions of play affecting the conduct of the match.
  and inform the scorers of agreements in 2.3.2, 2.3.3, 2.3.4 and 2.3.6.
 2.4 The wickets, creases and boundaries
  Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy 
themselves that
 2.4.1 the wickets are properly pitched. See clause 8 (The wickets).
 2.4.2 the creases are correctly marked. See clause 7 (The creases).
	 2.4.3	 the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play	complies	with	the	requirements	
of	clauses	19.1	(Determining	the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play),	  
19.2 (Identifying and marking the boundary) and 19.3 (Restoring 
the boundary).
 2.5 Conduct of the match, implements and equipment
  Before the toss and during the match, the umpires shall satisfy 
themselves that
 2.5.1 the conduct of the match is strictly in accordance with these 
Playing Conditions.
 2.5.2 the implements used in the match conform to the following:
 2.5.2.1 clause 4 (The ball).
 2.5.2.2 externally visible requirements of clause 5 (The bat) and 
paragraph 1 of Appendix B.
 2.5.2.3 either clauses 8.2 (Size of stumps) and 8.3 (The bails).
 2.5.3 no player uses equipment other than that permitted. See 
paragraph 2 of Appendix A. Note particularly therein the 
interpretation	of	‘protective	helmet’.
 2.5.4 the wicket-keeper’s gloves comply with the requirements of 
clause 27.2 (Gloves). 2 THE UMPIRES
 2.1 Appointment and attendance
  The following rules for the selection and appointment of umpires shall 
be followed as far as it is practicable to do so:
 2.1.1 The umpires shall control the game as required by these Playing 
Conditions, with absolute impartiality and shall be present at the 
ground at least 90 minutes before the scheduled start of play.
 2.1.2 The Home Board shall appoint all umpires to stand in each match 
in the following manner:
 2.1.2.1 For non-televised matches the Home Board shall 
appoint	two	on-field	umpires	and	a	reserve	umpire.	
The responsibility of the reserve umpire will be to act 
as	an	emergency	on-field	umpire	and	carry	out	tasks	
as prescribed for the third and fourth umpires. (note: a 
fourth umpire is not required.)
 2.1.2.2 For televised matches where DRS is not used, the Home 
Board	shall	appoint	two	on-field	umpires	and	a	third	
umpire. The third umpire shall act as the emergency 
on-field	umpire	and	officiate	in	regard	to	TV	replays.
 2.1.2.3 For televised matches where DRS is used, the Home 
Board	shall	appoint	two	on-field	umpires,	a	third	umpire	
who	shall	officiate	in	regard	to	the	DRS	and	a	reserve	
(fourth) umpire. The reserve (fourth) umpire shall act as 
the	emergency	on-field	umpire	(not	the	third	umpire).
 2.1.3 As early as possible before each match, the Home Board will 
advise the ICC of the names of its appointees and will advise the 
Manager of the visiting team of all umpires’ names.
 2.1.4 It’s recommended that in T20I matches the Home Board shall 
appoint	match	officials	in	the	following	manner:
	 2.1.4.1	 For	all	matches,	only	‘Elite	Panel’,	‘International	Panel’,	
‘First	Class	Panel’	or	female	umpires	on	the	‘ICC	
Development	Panel’	shall	be	appointed	as	the	on-field	
umpires or reserve umpire. 
	 2.1.4.2	 For	televised	matches	where	DRS	is	not	used,	only	‘Elite	
Panel’,	‘International	Panel’	or	‘First	Class	Panel’	umpires	
shall be appointed as the third umpire.
	 2.1.4.3	 For	televised	matches	where	DRS	is	used,	only	‘Elite	
Panel’	or	‘International	Panel’	umpires	shall	be	appointed	
as the third umpire.
 2.1.4.4 The playing conditions governing the use of the DRS and 
the third umpire are included in Appendix D.
 2.1.5 The Home Board shall appoint a local match referee for all 
matches (ICC Match Referee) from its International Panel of  
ICC Match Referees.
 2.1.6 Neither team will have a right of objection to the appointment of 
any umpire or ICC Match Referee.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.10 9.11 2.8.5.3 Light meter readings may accordingly be used by  
the umpires:
 2.8.5.3.1 To determine whether there has been at any 
stage a deterioration or improvement in the light.
 2.8.5.3.2 As benchmarks for the remainder of a match.
	 2.8.6	 Use	of	artificial	lights
  If in the opinion of the umpires, natural light is deteriorating to an 
unfit	level,	they	shall	authorize	the	Ground	Authority	to	use	the	
available	artificial	lighting	so	that	the	match	can	commence	or	
continue in acceptable conditions.
  In the event of power failure or lights malfunction, the provisions 
relating to the delay or interruption of play due to bad weather 
or light shall apply.
 2.8.7 When there is a suspension of play it is the responsibility of the 
umpires to monitor conditions. They shall make inspections as 
often	as	appropriate,	unaccompanied	by	any	players	or	officials.	
Immediately the umpires together agree that the conditions are 
no longer dangerous or unreasonable they shall call upon the 
players to resume play.
 2.8.8 The safety of all persons within the ground is of paramount 
importance to the ICC. In the event that of any threatening 
circumstance, whether actual or perceived (including for example 
weather, pitch invasions, act of God, etc.), then the umpires, on 
the advice of the ICC Match Referee, should suspend play and all 
players	and	officials	should	immediately	be	asked	to	leave	the	field 	
of play in a safe and orderly manner and to relocate to a secure 
and safe area (depending on each particular threat) pending the 
satisfactory passing or resolution of such threat or risk to the 
reasonable satisfaction of the umpires, the ICC Match Referee, the 
head of the relevant Ground Authority, the head of ground security 
and/or the police as the circumstances may require.
 2.8.9 Where play is suspended under clause 2.8.8 above the decision 
to abandon or resume play shall be the responsibility of the ICC 
Match Referee who shall act only after consultation with the 
head of ground security and the police.
 2.9 Position of umpires
  The umpires shall stand where they can best see any act upon which 
their decision may be required.
  Subject to this over-riding consideration, the bowler’s end umpire shall 
stand in a position so as not to interfere with either the bowler’s run-up 
or the striker’s view.
  The striker’s end umpire may elect to stand on the off side instead of the 
on	side	of	the	pitch,	provided	he/she	informs	the	captain	of	the	fielding	
side, the striker and the other umpire.
 2.10 Umpires changing ends
  Shall not apply. 2.6 Fair and unfair play
  The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play.
 2.7 Fitness for play
 2.7.1 It is solely for the umpires together to decide whether 
either conditions of ground, weather or light or exceptional 
circumstances mean that it would be dangerous or unreasonable 
for play to take place.
  Conditions shall not be regarded as either dangerous or 
unreasonable merely because they are not ideal.
  The fact that the grass and the ball are wet does not warrant the 
ground conditions being regarded as unreasonable or dangerous.
 2.7.2 Conditions shall be regarded as dangerous if there is actual and 
foreseeable risk to the safety of any player or umpire.
 2.7.3 Conditions shall be regarded as unreasonable if, although posing 
no risk to safety, it would not be sensible for play to proceed.
 2.7.4 If the umpires consider the ground is so wet or slippery as to 
deprive	the	bowler	of	a	reasonable	foothold,	the	fielders	of	the	
power of free movement, or the batters of the ability to play their 
strokes or to run between the wickets, then these conditions 
shall be regarded as so bad that it would be dangerous and 
unreasonable for play to take place.
 2.8 Suspension of play in dangerous or unreasonable circumstances
 2.8.1 All references to ground include the pitch. See clause 6.1  
(Area of pitch).
 2.8.2 If at any time the umpires together agree that the conditions of 
ground, weather or light, or any other circumstances are dangerous or 
unreasonable, they shall immediately suspend play, or not allow play 
to start or to recommence. The decision as to whether conditions are 
so bad as to warrant such action is one for the umpires alone to make, 
following consultation with the ICC Match Referee.
 2.8.3 If circumstances are warranted, the umpires shall stop play and 
instruct the Ground Authority to take whatever action they can and 
use whatever equipment is necessary to remove as much dew as 
possible	from	the	outfield	when	conditions	become	unreasonable 	
or dangerous. The umpires may also instruct the ground staff to take 
such action during scheduled and unscheduled breaks in play.
 2.8.4 The umpires shall disregard any shadow on the pitch from the 
stadium or from any permanent object on the ground.
 2.8.5 Light Meters
  It is the responsibility of each Home Board to supply light  
meters	to	the	match	officials	to	be	used	in	accordance	with	  
these playing conditions.
 2.8.5.1 All light meters shall be uniformly calibrated.
 2.8.5.2 The umpires shall be entitled to use light meter readings as 
a	guideline	for	determining	whether	the	light	is	fit	for	play 	
in accordance with the criteria set out in clause 2.8.2 above.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.12 9.13  Level 4 conduct
  Part 1 – by putting one arm out to the side of the body 
and repeatedly raising it and lowering it.
  Part 2 –	by	raising	an	index	finger,	held	at	shoulder	
height, to the side of the body.
 2.13.1.4 All the signals in clause 2.13.1.3 are to be made by the 
bowler’s end umpire except that for Short run, which 
is to be signalled by the umpire at the end where short 
running occurs. However, the bowler’s end umpire 
shall	be	responsible	both	for	the	final	signal	of	Short	
run to the scorers and, if more than one run is short, for 
informing them as to the number of runs to be recorded.
 2.13.2 The umpire shall wait until each signal to the scorers has been 
separately acknowledged by a scorer before allowing play to proceed.
  If several signals are to be used, they should be given in the order 
that the events occurred.
 2.14 Informing the umpires
  Wherever the umpires are to receive information from captains or other 
players	under	these	Playing	Conditions,	it	will	be	sufficient	for	one	
umpire to be so informed and for him/her to inform the other umpire.
 2.15 Correctness of scores
  Consultation between umpires and scorers on doubtful points is 
essential. The umpires shall, throughout the match, satisfy themselves as 
to the correctness of the number of runs scored, the wickets that have 
fallen and, where appropriate, the number of overs bowled.
  The umpires shall ensure that they are able to contact the scorers at 
any time during the match and at its conclusion to address any issues 
relating to the correctness of scores.
 3 THE SCORERS
 3.1 Appointment of scorers
  Two scorers shall be appointed to record all runs scored, all wickets 
taken and, where appropriate, number of overs bowled.
 3.2 Correctness of scores
  The scorers shall frequently check to ensure that their records agree and 
consult with the umpires if necessary. See clause 2.15 (Correctness of 
scores).
 3.3 Acknowledging signals
  The scorers shall accept all instructions and signals given to them by the 
umpires and shall immediately acknowledge each separate signal. 2.11 Disagreement and dispute
  Where there is disagreement or dispute about any matter, the umpires 
together	shall	make	the	final	decision.	See	also	clause	31.6	(Consultation	
by umpires).
 2.12 Umpire’s decision
  An umpire may alter any decision provided that such alteration is made 
promptly.	This	apart,	an	umpire’s	decision,	once	made,	is	final.
 2.13 Signals
 2.13.1 The following code of signals shall be used by umpires.
 2.13.1.1 Signals made while the ball is in play.
	 	 No	ball	–	by	extending	one	arm	horizontally.
	 	 Out	–	by	raising	an	index	finger	above	the	head.	 
(If not out, the umpire shall call Not out.)
	 	 Wide	–	by	extending	both	arms	horizontally.
	 	 Dead	ball	–	by	crossing	and	re-crossing	the	wrists	below	
the waist.
 2.13.1.2 When the ball is dead, the bowler’s end umpire shall 
repeat the signals in clause 2.13.1.1, with the exception of 
the signal for Out, to the scorers.
 2.13.1.3 The signals listed below shall be made to the scorers only 
when the ball is dead.
	 	 Boundary	4	–	by	waving	an	arm	from	side	to	side	finishing	
with the arm across the chest.
	 	 Boundary	6	–	by	raising	both	arms	above	the	head.
	 	 Bye	–	by	raising	an	open	hand	above	the	head.
	 	 Five	Penalty	runs	awarded	to	the	batting	side	– 	by	
repeated tapping of one shoulder with the opposite hand.
	 	 Five	Penalty	runs	awarded	to	the	fielding	side	–	by	
placing one hand on the opposite shoulder.
	 	 Leg	bye	–	by	touching	a	raised	knee	with	the	hand.
	 	 Revoke	last	signal	–	by	touching	both	shoulders,	each	
with the opposite hand.
	 	 Short	run	–	by	bending	one	arm	upwards	and	touching	
the	nearer	shoulder	with	the	tips	of	the	fingers.
	 	 Free	Hit	–	after	signaling	the	No	ball,	the	bowler’s	end	
umpire extends one arm straight upwards and moves it in 
a circular motion.
	 	 Powerplay	Over	–	by	rotating	his/her	arm	in	a	large	circle.
  The following signal is for Level 4 player conduct 
offences. The signal has two parts, both of which should 
be acknowledged separately by the scorers.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.14 9.15 5.3 The blade
 5.3.1 The blade comprises the whole of the bat apart from the handle 
as	defined	in	clause	5.2	and	in	paragraph	1.3	of	Appendix	B.
 5.3.2 The blade shall consist solely of wood.
 5.4 Protection and repair
	 	 Subject	to	the	specifications	in	paragraph	1.4	of	Appendix	B.	and	
providing clause 5.5 is not contravened,
 5.4.1 solely for the purposes of
  either 
  protection from surface damage to the face, sides and shoulders 
of the blade
  or
  repair to the blade after surface damage,
  material that is not rigid, either at the time of its application to 
the blade or subsequently, may be placed on these surfaces.
 5.4.2 for repair of the blade after damage other than surface damage
 5.4.2.1 solid material may be inserted into the blade.
 5.4.2.2 The only material permitted for any insertion is wood 
with minimal essential adhesives.
 5.4.3 to prevent damage to the toe, material may be placed on that 
part of the blade but shall not extend over any part of the face, 
back or sides of the blade.
 5.5 Damage to the ball
 5.5.1 For any part of the bat, covered or uncovered, the hardness 
of the constituent materials and the surface texture thereof 
shall not be such that either or both could cause unacceptable 
damage to the ball.
 5.5.2 Any material placed on any part of the bat, for whatever purpose, 
shall similarly not be such that it could cause unacceptable 
damage to the ball.
 5.5.3 For the purpose of this clause, unacceptable damage is any 
change that is greater than normal wear and tear caused by the 
ball striking the uncovered wooden surface of the blade.
 5.6 Contact with the ball
  In these clauses,
 5.6.1 reference to the bat shall imply that the bat is held in the batter’s 
hand or a glove worn on her hand, unless stated otherwise.
 5.6.2 contact between the ball and any of 5.6.2.1 to 5.6.2.4
 5.6.2.1 the bat itself
 5.6.2.2 the batter’s hand holding the bat
 5.6.2.3 any part of a glove worn on the batter’s hand holding the bat 4 THE BALL
 4.1 Weight and size
  The ball, when new, shall weigh not less than 4.94 ounces/140 g, nor 
more than 5.31 ounces/151 g, and shall measure not less than 8.25 in/21.0 
cm, nor more than 8.88 in/22.5 cm in circumference.
 4.2 Approval and control of balls
 4.2.1 The Home Board shall provide the best available high quality 
white	cricket	balls	(e.g.	Kookaburra	‘Turf’	or	its	equivalent)	and	
spare used balls for changing during a match, which shall also be 
of the same brand. Note: The Home Board shall be required to 
advise the Visiting Board of the brand of ball to be used in the 
match(es) at least 30 days prior to the start of the match(es).
	 4.2.2	 The	fielding	captain	or	her	nominee	may	select	the	ball(s)	with	which 	
she wishes to bowl from the supply provided by the Home Board. 
The reserve umpire shall take a box containing at least 6 new balls to 
the dressing room and supervise the selection of the ball(s).
 4.2.3 The umpires shall retain possession of the match ball(s) 
throughout the duration of the match when play is not actually 
taking place.
 4.2.4 During play umpires shall periodically and irregularly inspect the 
condition of the ball and shall retain possession of it at the fall of 
a wicket, or any other disruption in play.
 4.3 New ball
 4.3.1 One new ball shall be used at the start of each innings.
	 4.4	 Ball	lost	or	becoming	unfit	for	play
  If, during play, the ball cannot be found or recovered or the umpires 
agree	that	it	has	become	unfit	for	play	through	normal	use,	the	
umpires shall replace it with a ball which has had wear comparable 
with that which the previous ball had received before the need for its 
replacement. When the ball is replaced, the umpire shall inform the 
batters	and	the	fielding	captain.
 5 THE BAT
 5.1 The bat
 5.1.1 The bat consists of two parts, a handle and a blade.
 5.1.2 The basic requirements and measurements of the bat are set out in 
this	clause	with	detailed	specifications	in	paragraph	1	of	Appendix	B.
 5.2 The handle
 5.2.1 The handle is to be made principally of cane and/or wood.
	 5.2.2	 The	part	of	the	handle	that	is	wholly	outside	the	blade	is	defined	
to be the upper portion of the handle. It is a straight shaft for 
holding the bat.
 5.2.3 The upper portion of the handle may be covered with a grip as 
defined	in	paragraph	1.2.2	of	Appendix	B.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.16 9.17 6.3.1 The Ground Authority shall ensure that during the period prior 
to the start of play and during intervals, the pitch area shall be 
roped off so as to prevent unauthorised access. (The pitch area 
shall include an area at least 2 metres beyond the rectangle made 
by the crease markings at both ends of the pitch).
 6.3.2 The reserve umpire shall ensure that, prior to the start of play and 
during	any	intervals,	only	authorised	staff,	the	match	officials,	
players, team coaches and authorised television personnel shall 
be allowed access to the pitch area. Such access shall be subject 
to the following limitations:
 6.3.2.1 Only captains and team coaches may walk on the  
actual playing surface of the pitch area (outside of  
the crease markings).
 6.3.2.2 Access to the pitch area by television personnel shall 
be restricted to one camera crew (including one or 
two	television	commentators)	of	the	official	licensed	
television broadcaster(s) (but not news crews).
 6.3.2.3 No spiked footwear shall be permitted.
 6.3.2.4 No one shall be permitted to bounce a ball on the pitch, 
strike it with a bat or cause damage to the pitch in any 
other way.
 6.3.2.5 Access shall not interfere with pitch preparation.
 6.3.3 In the event of any dispute, the ICC Match Referee will rule and 
his/her	ruling	will	be	final.
 6.4 Changing the pitch
	 6.4.1	 If	the	on-field	umpires	decide	that	it	is	dangerous	or	
unreasonable for play to continue on the match pitch, they shall 
stop play and immediately advise the ICC Match Referee.
	 6.4.2	 The	on-field	umpires	and	the	ICC	Match	Referee	shall	then	
consult with both captains.
 6.4.3 If the captains agree to continue, play shall resume.
	 6.4.4	 If	the	decision	is	not	to	resume	play,	the	on-field	umpires	
together with the ICC Match Referee shall consider whether the 
existing pitch can be repaired and the match resumed from the 
point it was stopped. In considering whether to authorise such 
repairs, the ICC Match Referee must consider whether this would 
place either side at an unfair advantage, given the play that had 
already taken place on the dangerous pitch.
 6.4.5 If the decision is that the existing pitch cannot be repaired, then 
the match is to be abandoned with the following consequences: 
 6.4.5.1 In the event of the required number of overs to 
constitute a match having been completed at the time 
the match is abandoned, the result shall be determined 
according to the provisions of clause 16.4.2.
 6.4.5.2 In the event of the required number of overs to 
constitute a match not having been completed, the 
match will be abandoned as a no result. 5.6.2.4 any additional materials permitted under 5.4
  shall be regarded as the ball striking or touching the bat 
or being struck by the bat.
 5.7 Bat size limits
 5.7.1 The overall length of the bat, when the lower portion of the 
handle is inserted, shall not be more than 38 in/96.52 cm.
 5.7.2 The blade of the bat shall not exceed the following dimensions:
  Width: 4.25in/10.8 cm
  Depth: 2.64in/6.7 cm
  Edges: 1.56in/4.0cm.
  Furthermore, it should also be able to pass through a bat gauge 
as described in paragraph 1.6 of Appendix B.
 5.7.3 The handle shall not exceed 52% of the overall length of the bat.
 5.7.4 The material permitted for covering the blade in clause 5.4.1 shall 
not exceed 0.04 in/0.1 cm in thickness.
 5.7.5 The maximum permitted thickness of protective material placed 
on the toe of the blade is 0.12 in/0.3 cm.
 5.8 Categories of bat
 5.8.1 Type A bats conform to clauses 5.1 to 5.7 inclusive.
 5.8.2 Only Type A bats may be used in T20I matches.
 6 THE PITCH
 6.1 Area of pitch
  The pitch is a rectangular area of the ground 22 yards/20.12 m in length 
and 10 ft/3.05 m in width. It is bounded at either end by the bowling 
creases and on either side by imaginary lines, one each side of the 
imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps, each parallel 
to	it	and	5	ft/1.52	m	from	it.	If	the	pitch	is	next	to	an	artificial	pitch	which 	
is closer than 5 ft/1.52 m from the middle stumps, the pitch on that side 
will extend only to the junction of the two surfaces. See clauses 8.1 
(Description, width and pitching) and 7.2 (The bowling crease).
 6.2 Fitness of pitch for play
	 	 The	umpires	shall	be	the	sole	judges	of	the	fitness	of	the	pitch	for	
play. See clauses 2.7 (Fitness for play) and 2.8 (Suspension of play in 
dangerous or unreasonable conditions).
 6.3 Selection and preparation
  Before the match, the Ground Authority shall be responsible for the 
selection and preparation of the pitch. During the match, the umpires 
shall control its use and maintenance.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.18 9.19 7.4 The return creases
  The return creases, which are the inside edges of the crease markings, 
shall be at right angles to the popping crease at a distance of 4 ft 4 
in/1.32 m either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two 
middle stumps. Each return crease shall be marked from the popping 
crease to a minimum of 8 ft/2.44 m behind it and shall be considered to 
be unlimited in length.
 7.5 Additional Crease Markings
  As a guideline to the umpires for the calling of Wides on the offside, the 
crease markings detailed in paragraph 1 of Appendix C may be marked in 
white at each end of the pitch.
 8 THE WICKETS
 8.1 Description, width and pitching
  Two sets of wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other 
in the centres of the bowling creases. Each set shall be 9 in/22.86 cm 
wide and shall consist of three wooden stumps with two wooden bails 
on top. See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
 8.2 Size of stumps
  The tops of the stumps shall be 28 in/71.12 cm above the playing surface 
and shall be dome shaped except for the bail grooves. The portion of 
a stump above the playing surface shall be cylindrical apart from the 
domed top, with circular section of diameter not less than 1.38 in/3.50 
cm nor more than 1.5 in/3.81 cm. See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
  For televised matches, the Home Board may provide a slightly larger 
cylindrical stump to accommodate the stump camera. When the larger 
stump is used, all three stumps must be exactly the same size.
 8.3 The bails
 8.3.1 The bails, when in position on top of the stumps,
	 –		shall	not	project	more	than	0.5	in/1.27	cm	above	them.
	 –		shall	fit	between	the	stumps	without	forcing	them	out	of	 
the vertical.
	 8.3.2	 Each	bail	shall	conform	to	the	following	specifications.	 
See paragraph 2 of Appendix B.
  Overall length 4.31 in/10.95 cm
  Length of barrel 2.13 in /5.40 cm
  Longer spigot 1.38 in/3.50 cm
  Shorter spigot 0.81 in/2.06 cm.
 8.3.3 The two spigots and the barrel shall have the same centre line.
 8.3.4 Devices aimed at protecting player safety by limiting the distance 
that a bail can travel off the stumps will be allowed, subject to 
the approval of the Home Board and the ICC. 6.4.6 If the abandonment occurs on the day of the match, the ICC 
Match Referee shall consult with the Home Board with the 
objective	of	finding	a	way	for	a	new	match	(including	a	new	
nomination of teams and toss) to commence on the same date 
and venue. Such a match may be played either on the repaired 
pitch or on another pitch, subject to the ICC Match Referee and 
the	relevant	Ground	Authority	both	being	satisfied	that	the	new	
pitch will be of the required T20I standard. The playing time lost 
between the scheduled start time of the original match and 
the actual start time of the new match will be covered by the 
provisions of clause 12.
 6.4.7 If it is not possible to start a new match on the scheduled day of 
the	match,	the	relevant	officials	from	the	participating	Boards	
shall agree on whether the match can be replayed within the 
existing tour schedule.
 6.4.8 Throughout the above decision making processes, the ICC Match 
Referee shall keep informed both captains and the head of the 
Ground Authority. The head of the Ground Authority shall ensure 
that suitable and prompt public announcements are made.
 6.5 Non-turf pitches
 6.5.1  T20I matches shall be played on natural turf pitches. 
  Note: Home Boards may, prior to the commencement of the series,  
seek the approval of ICC to use a hybrid pitch as an alternate to a 
natural turf pitch.
 6.5.2  The use of PVA and other adhesives in the preparation of pitches 
is not permitted
 7 THE CREASES
 7.1 The creases
  The positions of a bowling crease, a popping crease and two return 
creases shall be marked by white lines, as set out in clauses 7.2, 7.3 and 
7.4, at each end of the pitch. See paragraph 1 of Appendix C.
 7.2 The bowling crease
  The bowling crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, is 
the line that marks the end of the pitch, as in clause 6.1 (Area of pitch). It 
shall be 8 ft 8 in/2.64 m in length.
 7.3 The popping crease
  The popping crease, which is the back edge of the crease marking, shall 
be in front of and parallel to the bowling crease and shall be 4 ft/1.22 m 
from it. The popping crease shall be marked to a minimum of 15 yards/13.71 
m on either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two 
middle stumps and shall be considered to be unlimited in length.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.20 9.21 9.2 Clearing debris from the pitch
 9.2.1 The pitch shall be cleared of any debris
 9.2.1.1 between innings. This shall precede rolling if any is to 
take place.
 9.2.1.2 at all intervals for meals.
 9.2.2 The clearance of debris in clause 9.2.1 shall be done by sweeping, 
except where the umpires consider that this may be detrimental 
to the surface of the pitch. In this case the debris must be cleared 
from that area by hand, without sweeping.
 9.2.3 In addition to 9.2.1, debris may be cleared from the pitch by hand, 
without sweeping, before mowing and whenever either umpire 
considers it necessary.
 9.3 Mowing
 9.3.1 Responsibility for mowing
 9.3.1.1 All mowings which are carried out before the match shall 
be the sole responsibility of the Ground Authority.
 9.4 Watering the pitch
  The pitch shall not be watered during the match.
 9.5 Re-marking creases
  Creases shall be re-marked whenever either umpire considers it necessary.
 9.6 Maintenance of footholes
  The umpires shall ensure that the holes made by the bowlers and 
batters are cleaned out and dried whenever necessary to facilitate play.
	 	 The	umpires	shall	allow,	if	necessary,	the	returfing	of	footholes	made	by	
the	bowlers	in	their	delivery	strides,	or	the	use	of	quick-setting	fillings	
for the same purpose.
  In addition, the umpires shall see that wherever possible and whenever 
it is considered necessary, action is taken during all intervals in play to 
do whatever is practicable to improve the bowler’s footholes. 
 9.7 Securing of footholds and maintenance of pitch
  During play, umpires shall allow the players to secure their footholds by 
the use of sawdust provided that no damage to the pitch is caused and 
that clause 41 (Unfair play) is not contravened.
 9.8 Protection and preparation of adjacent pitches during matches
  The protection (by way of an appropriate cover) and preparation of 
pitches which are adjacent to the match pitch will be permitted during 
the match subject to the following:
 9.8.1 Such measures will only be possible if requested by the Ground 
Authority and approved by the umpires before the start of the match.
 9.8.2 Approval should only be granted where such measures are 
unavoidable and will not compromise the safety of the players or 
their ability to execute their actions with complete freedom. 8.4 Dispensing with bails
  The umpires may agree to dispense with the use of bails, if necessary. 
If they so agree then no bails shall be used at either end. The use of 
bails shall be resumed as soon as conditions permit. See clause 29.4 
(Dispensing with bails).
 8.5 LED Wickets
  The use of approved LED Wickets is permitted. Refer also to paragraphs 
3.8.1.6 and 4.2 of Appendix D. 
 9 PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PLAYING AREA
 9.1 Rolling
  The pitch shall not be rolled during the match except as permitted in 
clauses 9.1.1 and 9.1.2.
 9.1.1 Frequency and duration of rolling
  During the match the pitch may be rolled at the request of the 
captain of the side batting second, for a period of not more than 
7 minutes, before the start of the second innings.
 9.1.2 Rolling after a delayed start
  In addition to the rolling permitted above, if, after the toss and 
before	the	first	innings	of	the	match,	the	start	is	delayed,	the	
captain of the batting side may request that the pitch be rolled 
for not more than 7 minutes. However, if the umpires together 
agree	that	the	delay	has	had	no	significant	effect	on	the	state	of	
the pitch, they shall refuse such request for rolling of the pitch.
 9.1.3 Choice of rollers
  If there is more than one roller available the captain of the 
batting side shall choose which one is to be used.
  The following shall apply in addition to clause 9.1:
	 9.1.4	 Prior	to	the	scheduled	time	for	the	toss,	the	artificial	drying	of	
the	pitch	and	outfield	shall	be	at	the	discretion	of	the	Ground	
Authority. Thereafter and throughout the match the drying of the 
outfield	may	be	undertaken	at	any	time	by	the	Ground	Authority,	
but the drying of the affected area of the pitch shall be carried 
out only on the instructions and under the supervision of the 
umpires. The umpires shall be empowered to have the pitch dried 
without reference to the captains at any time they are of the 
opinion	that	it	is	unfit	for	play.
 9.1.5 The umpires may instruct the Ground Authority to use any 
available equipment, including any roller for the purpose of 
drying	the	pitch	and	making	it	fit	for	play.
 9.1.6 An absorbent roller may be used to remove water from the 
covers including the cover on the match pitch.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.22 9.23 11.4 Changing agreed times of intervals
	 11.4.1	 If	the	innings	of	the	team	batting	first	is	completed	prior	to	the	
scheduled time for the interval, the interval shall take place 
immediately and the innings of the team batting second will 
commence correspondingly earlier. In circumstances where the 
side	bowling	first	has	not	completed	 the	allotted	number	of	overs	
by	the	scheduled	or	re-scheduled	cessation	time	for	the	first	
innings, the umpires shall reduce the length of the interval by the 
amount	of	time	that	the	first	innings	over-ran.	The	minimum	time	
for the interval will be 10 minutes. 
 11.4.2 However, following a lengthy delay or interruption prior to the 
completion	of	the	innings	of	the	team	batting	first,	the	Match	
Referee may, at his/her discretion, reduce the interval between 
innings from 15 minutes to no less than 10 minutes. 
 11.4.3 Such discretion should only be exercised after determining the 
adjusted overs per side based on a 15 minute interval. If having 
exercised	this	discretion,	the	rescheduled	finishing	time	for	the 	
match	is	earlier	than	the	latest	possible	finishing	time,	then	these 	
minutes should be deducted from the length of any interruption 
during the second innings before determining the overs remaining. 
 11.5 Intervals for drinks
 11.5.1 No drinks intervals shall be permitted.
 11.5.2 An individual player may be given a drink either on the boundary 
edge	or	at	the	fall	of	a	wicket,	on	the	field,	provided	that	no	
playing time is wasted. No other drinks shall be taken onto the 
field	without	the	permission	of	the	umpires.	Any	player	taking	
drinks	onto	the	field	shall	be	dressed	in	proper	cricket	attire	
(subject	to	the	wearing	of	bibs	–	refer	to	the	note	in	clause	24.1.4).
 11.6 Scorers to be informed
  The umpires shall ensure that the scorers are informed of all agreements 
about hours of play and intervals and of any changes made thereto as 
permitted under this clause.
 12 START OF PLAY; CESSATION OF PLAY
 12.1 Call of Play
	 	 The	bowler’s	end	umpire	shall	call	Play	before	the	first	ball	of	the	match	
and on the resumption of play after any interval or interruption.
 12.2 Call of Time
  The bowler’s end umpire shall call Time, when the ball is dead, at the 
end of any session of play or as required by these Playing Conditions. 
See also clause 20.3 (Call of Over or Time).
 12.3 Removal of bails
  After the call of Time, the bails shall be removed from both wickets. 9.8.3 The preparation work shall be carried out under the supervision 
of the reserve umpire.
 9.8.4 The consent of the captains is not required but the umpires shall 
advise both captains and the ICC Match Referee before the start 
of the match on what has been agreed.
 10 COVERING THE PITCH
 10.1 Before the match
  The use of covers before the match is the responsibility of the Ground 
Authority and may include full covering if required.
  The pitch shall be entirely protected against rain up to the 
commencement of play.
  However, the Ground Authority shall grant suitable facility to the 
captains to inspect the pitch before the nomination of their players 
and to the umpires to discharge their duties as laid down in clauses 
2 (The umpires), 6 (The pitch), 7 (The creases), 8 (The wickets), and 9 
(Preparation and maintenance of the playing area).
 10.2 During the match
  The pitch shall be entirely protected against rain up to the commencement 
of play, and for the duration of the period of the match.
  The covers must totally protect the pitch and also the pitch 
surroundings, to a minimum of 5 metres either side of the pitch, and any 
worn	or	soft	areas	in	the	outfield.
  The bowlers’ run-ups shall be covered during inclement weather, in 
order to keep them dry, to a distance of at least 10 x 10 metres.
 10.3 Removal of covers
  All covers (including “hessian” or “scrim” covers used to protect the pitch 
against the sun) shall be removed not later than 2 ½ hours before the 
scheduled start of play provided it is not raining at the time, but the pitch 
will be covered again if rain falls prior to the commencement of play.
 11 INTERVALS
 11.1 An interval
 11.1.1 The following shall be classed as intervals.
	 –		Intervals	between	innings.
	 –		Any	other	agreed	interval.
 11.1.2 Only these intervals shall be considered as scheduled breaks for 
the purposes of clause 24.2.6.
 11.2 Duration of interval
 11.2.1 There shall be a 15 minute interval between innings, taken from 
the call of Time before the interval until the call of Play on 
resumption after the interval.
 11.3 Allowance for interval between innings
  Law 11.3 shall not apply.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.24 9.25 12.8.3 In calculating the actual over rate for the match, allowances will 
be given as follows:
 12.8.3.1 The time lost as a result of treatment given to a player 
by	an	authorised	medical	personnel	on	the	field	of	play;
 12.8.3.2 The time lost as a result of a player being required to 
leave	the	field	as	a	result	of	a	serious	injury;
 12.8.3.3 The time taken for all third umpire referrals and 
consultations and any umpire or player reviews;
 12.8.3.4 The time lost as a result of time wasting by the 
batting side; and
 12.8.3.5 The time lost due to all other circumstances that are 
beyond	the	control	of	the	fielding	side.
	 12.8.4	 In	the	event	of	any	time	allowances	being	granted	to	the	fielding 	
team under clause 12.8.3.4 above (time wasting by batting team), 
then such time shall be deducted from the allowances granted to 
such batting team in the determination of its over rate.
 12.8.5 In addition to the allowances as provided for above,
 12.8.5.1 in the case of an innings that has been reduced due 
to any delay or interruption in play, an additional 
allowance of 1 minute for every full 3 overs by which 
the innings is reduced will be granted.
 12.8.5.2 an additional allowance of 1 minute will be given for 
each of the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th wickets taken during  
an innings.
 12.8.6 If a batting team is bowled out within the time determined for 
that innings pursuant to these playing conditions (taking into 
account	all	of	the	time	allowances	set	out	above),	the	fielding	
side shall be deemed to have complied with the required 
minimum over rate.
	 12.8.7	 The	current	over	rate	of	the	fielding	team	(+/-	overs	compared	
to the minimum rate required), shall be advised by the 3rd 
umpire every 30 minutes as a minimum.
 13 INNINGS
 13.1 Number of innings
 13.1.1 A match shall be one innings for each side.
 13.2 Alternate innings
  Each side shall take their innings alternately.
 13.3 Completed innings
  A side’s innings is to be considered as completed if any of the  
following applies
 13.3.1 the side is all out.
 13.3.2 at the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batter, further balls 
remain to be bowled but no further batter is available to come in.
 13.3.3 the prescribed number of overs have been bowled to the 
batting side. 12.4 Starting a new over
  Another over shall always be started at any time during the match, 
unless an interval is to be taken in the circumstances set out in clause 
12.5.2, if the umpire, walking at normal pace, has arrived at the position 
behind the stumps at the bowler’s end before the time agreed for the 
next interval has been reached.
 12.5 Completion of an over
  Other than at the end of the match,
 12.5.1 if the agreed time for an interval is reached during an over, the 
over shall be completed before the interval is taken, except as 
provided for in clause 12.5.2.
 12.5.2 when less than 3 minutes remains before the time agreed for 
the next interval, the interval shall be taken immediately if
  either a batter is dismissed or retires or
		 	 the	players	have	occasion	to	leave	the	field
  whether this occurs during an over or at the end of an over. 
Except at the end of an innings, if an over is thus interrupted it 
shall be completed on the resumption of play.
 12.6 Conclusion of match
 12.6.1 The match is concluded
	 12.6.1.1	 as	soon	as	a	result	as	defined	in	clauses	16.1	to	16.5	 
(The result) is reached.
 12.6.1.2 as soon as the prescribed number of overs have  
been completed.
 12.6.2 The match is concluded if, without a conclusion having been 
reached	under	12.6.1,	the	players	leave	the	field	for	adverse	
conditions of ground, weather or light, or in exceptional 
circumstances, and no further play is possible.
 12.7 Hours of Play; Minimum Overs Requirement
 12.7.1 To be determined by the Home Board subject to there being 
2 sessions of 1 hour 15 minutes each, separated by a 15 minute 
interval between innings. 
  Note: The playing hours of matches scheduled to take place at 
venues where dew is likely to be a factor should be determined 
so as to ensure that the effect of any dew is minimised.
 12.8 Minimum Over Rates
 12.8.1 The minimum over rate to be achieved in T20I Matches shall be  
16 overs per hour.
 12.8.2 The actual over rate shall be calculated at the end of each 
innings by the umpires.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.26 9.27 13.7.2.1.2 The revision of the number of overs should 
ensure, whenever possible, that both 
teams have the opportunity of batting 
for the same number of overs. The team 
batting second shall not bat for a greater 
number	of	overs	than	the	first	team	unless	
the latter completed its innings in less than 
its allocated overs. To constitute a match, a 
minimum of 5 overs have to be bowled to 
the side batting second, subject to a result 
not being achieved earlier.
 13.7.2.1.3 As soon as the total minutes of playing 
time remaining is less than the completed 
overs faced by Team 1 multiplied by 3.75, 
then	the	first	innings	is	terminated	and	the	
provisions of 13.7.2.2 below take effect.
	 13.7.2.1.4	 A	fixed	time	will	be	specified	for	the 	
commencement of the interval, and also the 
close of play for the match, by applying a 
rate of 16 overs per hour. When calculating 
the length of playing time available for the 
match, or the length of either innings, the 
timing and duration of all relative delays, 
extensions in playing hours, interruptions 
in play, and intervals, will be taken into 
consideration. This calculation must not 
cause	the	match	to	finish	earlier	than	the 	
original or rescheduled time for cessation 
of	play	on	the	final	scheduled	day	for	play.	If 	
required the original time shall be extended 
to allow for one extra over for each team. 
	 13.7.2.1.5	 If	the	team	fielding	first	fails	to	bowl	the	
revised	number	of	overs	by	the	specified	
time, play shall continue until the required 
number of overs have been bowled or the 
innings is completed. 
 13.7.2.1.6 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates 
(refer to the ICC Code of Conduct).
 13.7.2.2 Delay or Interruption to the innings of the Team 
Batting Second (see paragraph 2 of Appendix E)
 13.7.2.2.1 When playing time has been lost and, as a 
result, it is not possible for the team batting 
second to have the opportunity of receiving 
its allocated, or revised allocation of overs 
in the playing time available, the number of 
overs shall be reduced at a rate of 16 overs 
per hour in respect of the lost playing time. 
Should the calculations result in a fraction of 
an over the fraction shall be ignored.  13.4 The toss
	 	 The	captains	shall	toss	a	coin	for	the	choice	of	innings,	on	the	field	of	play	and 	
under the supervision of the ICC Match Referee, not earlier than 30 minutes, 
nor later than 15 minutes before the scheduled or any rescheduled time for 
the start of play. Note, however, the provisions of clause 1.3 (Captain).
	 13.5	 Decision	to	be	notified
  As soon as the toss is completed, the captain of the side winning the 
toss	shall	decide	whether	to	bat	or	to	field	and	shall	notify	the	opposing	
captain	and	the	umpires	of	this	decision.	Once	notified,	the	decision	
cannot be changed.
 13.6 Duration of Match
 13.6.1 All matches will consist of one innings per side, each innings 
being limited to a maximum of 20 overs. All matches shall be of 
one day’s scheduled duration.
 13.7 Length of Innings
 13.7.1 Uninterrupted Matches.
 13.7.1.1 Each team shall bat for 20 overs unless all out earlier. 
	 13.7.1.2	 If	the	team	fielding	first	fails	to	bowl	the	required	
number of overs by the scheduled time for cessation 
of	the	first	innings,	play	shall	continue	until	the	
required number of overs has been bowled. The 
interval shall be reduced to enable the second innings 
to commence at the scheduled time, subject to there 
being a minimum interval of 10 minutes. The team 
batting second shall receive its full quota of 20 overs 
irrespective of the number of overs it bowled in the 
scheduled	time	for	the	cessation	of	the	first	innings.	
	 13.7.1.3	 If	the	team	batting	first	is	dismissed	in	less	than	20	
overs, the team batting second shall be entitled to 
bat for 20 overs. 
	 13.7.1.4	 If	the	team	fielding	second	fails	to	bowl	20	overs	by	
the scheduled cessation time, the hours of play shall 
be extended until the required number of overs has 
been bowled or a result is achieved. 
 13.7.1.5 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates  
(refer ICC Code of Conduct).
 13.7.2 Delayed or Interrupted Matches 
 13.7.2.1 Delay or Interruption to the Innings of the Team 
Batting First (see paragraph 1 of Appendix E)
 13.7.2.1.1 When playing time has been lost the 
revised number of overs to be bowled in 
the match shall be based on a rate of 16 
overs per hour in the total remaining time 
available for play.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.28 9.29 13.9.3 Where the total overs is not divisible by 5, one additional over 
shall be allowed to the maximum number per bowler necessary 
to make up the balance. 
 13.9.4 In the event of a bowler breaking down and being unable to 
complete an over, the remaining balls will be allowed by another 
bowler. Such part of an over will count as a full over only in so far 
as each bowler’s limit is concerned. 
 13.9.5 The scoreboard shall show the total number of overs bowled 
and the number of overs bowled by each bowler. 
 14 THE FOLLOW-ON
 Shall not apply.
 15 DECLARATION AND FORFEITURE
 Shall not apply.
 16 THE RESULT
 16.1 A Win – one-innings match
 16.1.1 The side which has scored in its one innings a total of runs in 
excess of that scored by the opposing side in its one completed 
innings shall win the match. See clause 13.3 (Completed innings). 
Note also 16.4 (Winning hit or extras).
 16.1.2 Save for circumstances where a match is awarded to a team as 
a consequence of the opposing team’s refusal to play (clause 
16.2), a result can be achieved only if both teams have had the 
opportunity of batting for at least 20 overs, unless one team 
has been all out in less than 5 overs or unless the team batting 
second scores enough runs to win in less than 5 overs.
 16.1.3 Save for circumstances where a match is awarded to a team as a 
consequence of the opposing team’s refusal to play (clause 16.2), 
all matches in which both teams have not had an opportunity of 
batting for a minimum of 5 overs, shall be declared a No Result.
 16.2 ICC Match Referee awarding a match
 16.2.1 A match shall be lost by a side which either
 16.2.1.1 concedes defeat or
 16.2.1.2 in the opinion of the ICC Match Referee refuses to play 
and the ICC Match Referee shall award the match to 
the other side.
 16.2.2 If an umpire considers that an action by any player or players might 
constitute a refusal by either side to play then the umpires together 
shall inform the ICC Match Referee of this fact. The ICC Match 
Referee shall together with the umpires ascertain the cause of the 
action. If the ICC Match Referee, after due consultation with the 
umpires, then decides that this action does constitute a refusal to 
play by one side, he/she shall so inform the captain of that side. If 
the captain persists in the action the ICC Match Referee shall award 
the match in accordance with clause 16.2.1.2 above. 13.7.2.2.2 In addition, should the innings of the team 
batting	first	have	been	completed	prior	to	
the scheduled, or re-scheduled time for 
the commencement of the interval, then 
any calculation relating to the revision of 
overs shall not be effective until an amount 
of time equivalent to that by which the 
second innings started early has elapsed. 
 13.7.2.2.3 To constitute a match, a minimum of 5 
overs have to be bowled to the team 
batting second subject to a result not being 
achieved earlier.
 13.7.2.2.4 The team batting second shall not bat for a 
greater	number	of	overs	than	the	first	team	
unless the latter completed its innings in 
less than its allocated overs. 
	 13.7.2.2.5	 A	fixed	time	will	be	specified	for	the	close	
of play by applying a rate of 16 overs per 
hour. The timing and duration of all relative 
delays, extensions in playing hours and 
interruptions in play, will be taken into 
consideration in specifying this time. 
	 13.7.2.2.6	 If	the	team	fielding	second	fails	to	bowl	
the revised overs by the scheduled or 
re-scheduled close of play, the hours of 
play shall be extended until the overs have 
been bowled or a result achieved.
 13.7.2.2.7 Penalties shall apply for slow over rates  
(refer to the ICC Code of Conduct).
 13.8 Extra Time
  The participating countries may agree to provide for extra time 
where the start of play is delayed or play is suspended. For clarity, the 
changeover period (maximum 10 mins) for a Super Over after the main 
match is not to be taken into account when applying any permitted 
extra time available.
 13.9 Number of Overs per Bowler
 13.9.1 No bowler shall bowl more than 4 overs in an innings. 
 13.9.2 In a delayed or interrupted match where the overs are reduced 
for both teams or for the team bowling second;
 13.9.2.1 for innings of rescheduled length of at least 10 overs, 
no	bowler	may	bowl	more	than	one-fifth	of	the	total	
overs allowed. Where the total overs is not divisible 
by 5, one additional over shall be allowed to the 
maximum number per bowler necessary to make up 
the balance.
 13.9.2.2 for innings of rescheduled length of between 5 and 9 
overs, no bowler may bowl more than two overs.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.30 9.31 16.5.2 The side batting last will have scored enough runs to win only if 
its	total	of	runs	is	sufficient	without	including	any	runs	completed 	
by the batters before the completion of a catch, or the 
obstruction of a catch, from which the striker could be dismissed.
 16.5.3 If a boundary is scored before the batters have completed 
sufficient	runs	to	win	the	match,	the	whole	of	the	boundary	
allowance shall be credited to the side’s total and, in the case  
of a hit by the bat, to the striker’s score.
 16.6 Statement of result
  If the side batting last wins the match without losing all its wickets, the 
result shall be stated as a win by the number of wickets still then to fall.
  If, without having scored a total of runs in excess of the total scored 
by the opposing side, the innings of the side batting last has been 
completed, but as the result of an award of 5 Penalty runs its total of 
runs	is	then	sufficient	to	win,	the	result	shall	be	stated	as	a	win	to	that	
side by Penalty runs.
	 	 If	the	side	fielding	last	wins	the	match,	the	result	shall	be	stated	as	a	win	
by runs.
  If the match is decided by one side conceding defeat or refusing to play, 
the result shall be stated as Match Conceded or Match Awarded, as the 
case may be.
 16.7 Correctness of result
  Any decision as to the correctness of the scores shall be the 
responsibility of the umpires. See clause 2.15 (Correctness of scores).
 16.8 Mistakes in scoring
	 	 If,	after	the	players	and	umpires	have	left	the	field	in	the	belief	that	
the match has been concluded, the umpires discover that a mistake in 
scoring has occurred which affects the result then, subject to clause 16.9, 
they shall adopt the following procedure.
	 16.8.1	 If,	when	the	players	leave	the	field,	the	side	batting	last	has	not	
completed its innings and
  either the number of overs to be bowled in that innings has not 
been completed, or
  the end of the innings has not been reached,
  then, unless one side concedes defeat, the umpires shall order 
play to resume.
  Unless a result is reached sooner, play will then continue,  
if conditions permit, until the prescribed number of overs has 
been completed. The number of overs shall be taken as they 
were at the call of Time for the supposed conclusion of the 
match. No account shall be taken of the time between that 
moment and the resumption of play.
 16.8.2 If, at this call of Time, the overs have been completed and no 
Playing time remains, or if the side batting last has completed 
its innings, the umpires shall immediately inform both captains 
of the necessary corrections to the scores and to the result. 16.2.3 If action as in clause 16.2.2 above takes place after play has 
started and does not constitute a refusal to play the delay or 
interruption in play shall be dealt with in the same manner as 
provided for in clauses 13.7.2 (Delayed and Interrupted Matches) 
and 11.4 (Changing agreed times for intervals) above.
  Note: In addition to the consequences of any refusal to play 
prescribed under this clause, any such refusal, whether temporary 
or	final,	may	result	in	disciplinary	action	being	taken	against	the 	
captain and team responsible under the Code of Conduct.
 16.3 All other matches – A Tie or No Result
 16.3.1 A Tie
  The result of a match shall be a Tie when all innings have been 
completed and the scores are equal.
  If the scores are equal, the result shall be a tie and no account 
shall be taken of the number of wickets that have fallen. In the 
event of a tied match the teams shall compete in a Super Over 
to determine the winner. Refer to Appendix F.
 16.3.2 No Result
  See 16.1.3 above.
 16.4 Prematurely Terminated Matches - Calculation of the Target Score
 16.4.1 Interrupted Matches - Calculation of the Target Score
 16.4.1.1 If, due to suspension of play after the start of the 
match, the number of overs in the innings of either 
team has to be revised to a lesser number than 
originally allotted (minimum of 5 overs), then a 
revised target score (to win) should be set for the 
number of overs which the team batting second will 
have the opportunity of facing. This revised target is 
to be calculated using the current Duckworth/Lewis/
Stern method. The target set will always be a whole 
number and one run less will constitute a Tie. (Refer 
Duckworth/Lewis/Stern Regulations).
 16.4.2 Prematurely Terminated Matches
 16.4.2.1 If the innings of the side batting second is suspended 
(with at least 5 overs bowled) and it is not possible for 
the match to be resumed, the match will be decided 
by	comparison	with	the	DLS	‘Par	Score’	determined	
at the instant of the suspension by the Duckworth/
Lewis/Stern method (refer Duckworth/Lewis/Stern 
Regulations). If the score is equal to the par score, 
the match is a Tie. Otherwise the result is a victory, 
or defeat, by the margin of runs by which the score 
exceeds, or falls short of, the Par Score.
 16.5 Winning hit or extras
	 16.5.1	 As	soon	as	a	result	is	reached	as	defined	in	clauses	16.1,	16.2	or	
16.3.1, the match is at an end. Nothing that happens thereafter, 
except as in clause 41.18.2 (Penalty runs), shall be regarded as 
part of it. Note also clause 16.8.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.32 9.33 17.5 Umpire miscounting
 17.5.1 If the umpire miscounts the number of valid balls, the over as 
counted by the umpire shall stand.
 17.5.2 If, having miscounted, the umpire allows an over to continue 
after 6 valid balls have been bowled, he/she may subsequently 
call Over when the ball becomes dead after any delivery, even if 
that delivery is not a valid ball.
 17.5.3 Whenever possible, the third umpire shall liaise with the  
scorers	and	if	possible	inform	the	on-field	umpires	if	the	over	
has been miscounted.
 17.6 Bowler changing ends
  A bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as desired, provided 
she does not bowl two overs consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of 
two consecutive overs, in the same innings.
 17.7 Finishing an over
	 17.7.1	 Other	than	at	the	end	of	an	innings,	a	bowler	shall	finish	an	over	
in progress unless incapacitated or suspended under these 
Playing Conditions.
 17.7.2 If for any reason, other than the end of an innings, an over is left 
uncompleted at the start of an interval or interruption, it shall 
be completed on resumption of play.
 17.8 Bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over
  If for any reason a bowler is incapacitated while running up to deliver 
the	first	ball	of	an	over,	or	is	incapacitated	or	suspended	during	an	over,	
the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball. Another bowler shall complete 
the over from the same end, provided that she does not bowl two  
overs consecutively, nor bowl parts of each of two consecutive overs, 
in that innings.
 18 SCORING RUNS
 18.1 A run
  The score shall be reckoned by runs. A run is scored
 18.1.1 so often as the batters, at any time while the ball is in play, have 
crossed and made good their ground from end to end.
 18.1.2 when a boundary is scored. See clause 19 (Boundaries).
 18.1.3 when Penalty runs are awarded. See clause 18.6.
 18.2 Runs disallowed
  Wherever in these Playing Conditions provision is made for the scoring 
of runs or awarding of penalties, such runs and penalties will be subject 
to any provisions that may be applicable for the disallowance of runs or 
for the non-award of penalties.
  When runs are disallowed, the one run penalty for No ball or Wide shall 
stand and 5 run penalties shall be allowed, except for Penalty runs under 
clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side). 16.9 Result not to be changed
  Once the umpires have agreed with the scorers the correctness of the 
scores	at	the	conclusion	of	the	match	–	see	clauses	2.15	(Correctness	  
of	scores)	and	3.2	(Correctness	of	scores)	–	the	result	cannot	thereafter	
be changed.
 16.10 Points
  A points system shall not apply.
 17 THE OVER
 17.1 Number of balls
  The ball shall be bowled from each end alternately in overs of 6 balls.
 17.2 Start of an over
  An over has started when the bowler starts her run-up or, if there is no 
run-up,	starts	her	action	for	the	first	delivery	of	that	over.
 17.3 Validity of balls
 17.3.1 A ball shall not count as one of the 6 balls of the over unless it 
is delivered, even though, as in clause 41.16 (Non-striker leaving 
her ground early) a batter may be dismissed or some other 
incident occurs without the ball having been delivered.
 17.3.2 A ball delivered by the bowler shall not count as one of the 6 
balls of the over
 17.3.2.1 if it is called dead, or is to be considered dead, before 
the striker has had an opportunity to play it. See 
clause 20.6 (Dead ball; ball counting as one of over).
 17.3.2.2 if it is called dead in the circumstances of clause 
20.4.2.6. Note also the special provisions of clause 
20.4.2.5 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead ball).
 17.3.2.3 if it is a No ball. See clause 21 (No ball).
 17.3.2.4 if it is a Wide. See clause 22 (Wide ball).
 17.3.2.5 when any of clauses 24.4 (Player returning without 
permission), 28.2 (Fielding the ball), 41.4 (Deliberate 
attempt to distract striker), or 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, 
deception or obstruction of batter) is applied.
 17.3.3 Any deliveries other than those listed in clauses 17.3.1 and 17.3.2 
shall be known as valid balls. Only valid balls shall count towards 
the 6 balls of the over.
 17.4 Call of Over
  When 6 valid balls have been bowled and when the ball becomes dead, 
the umpire shall call Over before leaving the wicket. See also clause 20.3 
(Call of Over or Time).ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.34 9.35 18.6 Runs awarded for penalties
  Runs shall be awarded for penalties under clauses 18.5 (Deliberate 
short runs), 21 (No ball), 22 (Wide ball), 24.4 (Player returning without 
permission), 26.4 (Penalties for contravention), 28.2(Fielding the ball), 28.3 
(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side)	41	(Unfair	play)	and 	
42 (Players’ conduct). Note, however, the restrictions on the award of 
Penalty runs in clauses 23.3 (Leg byes not to be awarded), 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side)	and	34	(Hit	the	ball	twice).
 18.7 Runs scored for boundaries
  Runs shall be scored for boundary allowances under clause 19 (Boundaries).
 18.8 Runs scored when a batter is dismissed
  When a batter is dismissed, any runs for penalties awarded to either 
side shall stand.
  No other runs shall be credited to the batting side, except as follows.
	 18.8.1	 If	a	batter	is	dismissed	Obstructing	the	field,	the	batting	side	
shall also score any runs completed before the offence.
  If, however, the obstruction prevented a catch being made, no 
runs other than penalties shall be scored.
 18.8.2 If a batter is dismissed Run out, the batting side shall also score 
any runs completed before the wicket was put down.
 18.9 Runs scored when the ball becomes dead other than at the fall of a wicket
  When the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the fall of a 
wicket,	or	is	called	dead	by	an	umpire,	unless	there	is	specific	provision	
otherwise in these Playing Conditions, any runs for penalties awarded to 
either side shall be scored. Note however the provisions of clauses 23.3 
(Leg byes not to be awarded) and 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to 
the	fielding	side).
  Additionally the batting side shall be credited with all runs completed 
by the batters before the incident or call of Dead ball and the run in 
progress if the batters had already crossed at the instant of the incident 
or	call	of	Dead	ball.	Note	specifically,	however,	the	provisions	of	clause	
41.5.8 (Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batter).
 18.10 Crediting of runs scored
  Unless stated otherwise in these Playing Conditions,
 18.10.1 if the ball is struck by the bat, all runs scored by the batting side 
shall be credited to the striker, except for the following:
	 –		an	award	of	5	Penalty	runs,	which	shall	be	scored	as	Penalty	runs
	 –		the	one	run	penalty	for	a	No	ball,	which	shall	be	scored	as	a	
No ball extra.
 18.10.2 if the ball is not struck by the bat, runs shall be scored as Penalty 
runs, Byes, Leg byes, No ball extras or Wides as the case may 
be. If Byes or Leg byes accrue from a No ball, only the one run 
penalty for No ball shall be scored as such, and the remainder as 
Byes or Leg byes as appropriate. 18.3 Short runs
 18.3.1 A run is short if a batter fails to make good her ground in turning 
for a further run.
 18.3.2 Although a short run shortens the succeeding one, the latter if 
completed shall not be regarded as short. A striker setting off 
for	the	first	run	from	in	front	of	the	popping	crease	may	do	so	
also without penalty.
 18.4 Unintentional short runs
  Except in the circumstances of clause 18.5,
 18.4.1 if either batter runs a short run, the umpire concerned shall, 
unless a boundary is scored, call and signal Short run as soon as 
the ball becomes dead and that run shall not be scored.
 18.4.2 if, after either or both batters run short, a boundary is scored 
the umpire concerned shall disregard the short running and shall 
not call or signal Short run.
 18.4.3 if both batters run short in one and the same run, this shall be 
regarded as only one short run.
 18.4.4 if more than one run is short then, subject to clauses 18.4.2 and 
18.4.3, all runs called as short shall not be scored.
 18.4.5 if there has been more than one short run, the umpire shall 
inform the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded.
 18.5 Deliberate short runs
 18.5.1 If either umpire considers that one or both batters deliberately 
ran short at that umpire’s end, the umpire concerned shall, 
when the ball is dead, call and signal Short run and inform the 
other umpire of what has occurred and apply clause 18.5.2.
 18.5.2 The bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side
	 –		return	any	not	out	batter	to	her	original	end
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	to	the	scorers,	if	applicable
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side
	 –		award	any	other	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side)
	 –		inform	the	scorers	as	to	the	number	of	runs	to	be	recorded,	and
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
 ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.36 9.37 19 BOUNDARIES
	 19.1	 Determining	the	boundary	of	the	field	of	play
 19.1.1 Before the toss, the umpires shall determine the boundary of 
the	field	of	play,	which	shall	be	fixed	for	the	duration	of	the	
match. See clause 2.3.4 (Consultation with Home Board).
 19.1.2 The boundary shall be determined such that no part of any 
sight-screen,	will,	at	any	stage	of	the	match,	be	within	the	field	
of play.
 19.1.3 With respect to the size of the boundaries, no boundary shall be 
longer than 65 yards (59.43 meters), and no boundary should be 
shorter than 55 yards (50.29 metres) from the centre of the pitch 
to be used.
 19.1.4 Any ground on which a Test or ODI International has been played 
prior to 1 October 2005 which cannot conform to these minimum 
dimensions shall be exempt from this playing condition. Any new 
ground must conform to these minimum dimensions.
 19.2 Identifying and marking the boundary
 19.2.1 All boundaries must be designated by a rope, or similar object 
of a minimum standard as authorised by the ICC from time 
to time. The rope should be positioned a required minimum 
distance (3 yards (2.74 metres) minimum) inside the perimeter 
fencing or advertising signs, or from any solid object located 
between the rope and the fence/signs. For grounds with a large 
playing area, the maximum length of boundary should be used 
before applying the minimum 3 yards (2.74 metres) between the 
boundary and the fence.
 19.2.2 If the boundary is marked by means of an object that is in 
contact with the ground the boundary will be the edge of the 
grounded part of the object which is nearest the pitch.
	 19.2.3	 An	obstacle	within	the	field	of	play	shall	not	be	regarded	as	a	
boundary unless so determined by the umpires before the toss. 
See clause 2.3.4 (Consultation with Home Board).
 19.2.4 If an unauthorized person enters the playing arena and handles 
the ball, the umpire at the bowler’s end shall be the sole judge 
of whether the boundary allowance should be scored or the ball 
be treated as still in play or called dead ball if a batter is liable to 
be out as a result of the unauthorized person handling the ball.
 19.3 Restoring the boundary
  If a solid object used to mark the boundary is disturbed for any reason, then:
 19.3.1 the boundary shall be considered to be in its original position.
 19.3.2 the object shall be returned to its original position as soon as 
is practicable; if play is taking place, this shall be as soon as the 
ball is dead.
	 19.3.3	 if	some	part	of	a	fence	or	other	marker	has	come	within	the	field	
of	play,	that	part	shall	be	removed	from	the	field	of	play	as	soon	
as is practicable; if play is taking place, this shall be as soon as 
the ball is dead. 18.10.3 the bowler shall be debited with:
	 –		all	runs	scored	by	the	striker
	 –		all	runs	scored	as	No	ball	extras
	 –		all	runs	scored	as	Wides.
 18.11 Batter returning to original end
 18.11.1 When the striker is dismissed in any of the circumstances in 
clauses 18.11.1.1 to 18.11.1.5, the not out batter shall return to her 
original end.
 18.11.1.1 Bowled.
 18.11.1.2 Stumped.
 18.11.1.3 Hit the ball twice.
 18.11.1.4 LBW.
 18.11.1.5 Hit wicket.
 18.11.2 The batters shall return to their original ends in any of the cases 
of clauses 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3.
 18.11.2.1 A boundary is scored.
 18.11.2.2 Runs are disallowed for any reason.
 18.11.2.3 A decision by the batters at the wicket to do so, 
under clause 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception or 
obstruction of batter).
 18.12 Batter returning to wicket she has left
 18.12.1 When a batter is dismissed in any of the ways in clauses 18.12.1.1 
to 18.12.1.3, the not out batter shall return to the wicket she 
has left but only if the batters had not already crossed at the 
instant of the incident causing the dismissal. If runs are to be 
disallowed, however, the not out batter shall return to her 
original end.
 18.12.1.1 Caught
	 18.12.1.2	 Obstructing	the	field
 18.12.1.3 Run out.
 18.12.2 If, while a run is in progress, the ball becomes dead for any 
reason other than the dismissal of a batter, the batters shall 
return to the wickets they had left, but only if they had not 
already crossed in running when the ball became dead. If, 
however, any of the circumstances of clauses 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3 
apply, the batters shall return to their original ends.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.38 9.39 19.7.3 When a boundary is scored, the batting side, except in the 
circumstances of clause 19.8, shall be awarded whichever is the 
greater of
 19.7.3.1 the allowance for the boundary
 19.7.3.2 the runs completed by the batters together with 
the run in progress if they had already crossed at the 
instant the boundary is scored.
 19.7.4 When the runs in clause 19.7.3.2 exceed the boundary allowance 
they shall replace the boundary allowance for the purposes of 
clause 18.12.2.
 19.7.5 The scoring of Penalty runs by either side is not affected by the 
scoring of a boundary.
	 19.8	 Overthrow	or	wilful	act	of	fielder
  If the boundary results from an overthrow or from the wilful act of a 
fielder,	the	runs	scored	shall	be
  any runs for penalties awarded to either side
  and the allowance for the boundary
  and the runs completed by the batters, together with the run in 
progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the throw or act.
  Clause 18.12.2 (Batter returning to wicket she has left) shall apply as from 
the instant of the throw or act.
 20 DEAD BALL
 20.1 Ball is dead
 20.1.1 The ball becomes dead when
	 20.1.1.1	 it	is	finally	settled	in	the	hands	of	the	wicket-keeper	
or of the bowler.
 20.1.1.2 a boundary is scored. See clause 19.7 (Runs scored 
from boundaries).
 20.1.1.3 a batter is dismissed. The ball will be deemed to  
be dead from the instant of the incident causing  
the dismissal.
 20.1.1.4 whether played or not it becomes trapped between 
the bat and person of a batter or between items of 
her clothing or equipment.
 20.1.1.5 whether played or not it lodges in the clothing or 
equipment of a batter or the clothing of an umpire.
 20.1.1.6 there is an award of Penalty runs under either of 
clauses 24.4 (Player returning without permission) or 
28.3 (Fielding the ball). The ball shall not count as one 
of the over.
 20.1.1.7 there is a contravention of clause 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 20.1.1.8 the match is concluded in any of the ways stated in 
clause 12.6 (Conclusion of match). 19.4 Ball grounded beyond the boundary
 19.4.1 The ball in play is grounded beyond the boundary if it touches
	 –		the	boundary	or	any	part	of	an	object	used	to	mark	the	
boundary;
	 –		the	ground	beyond	the	boundary;
	 –		any	object	that	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary.
 19.4.2 The ball in play is to be regarded as being grounded beyond the 
boundary if
	 –		a	fielder,	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	as	in	clause	19.5,	
touches the ball;
	 –		a	fielder,	after	catching	the	ball	within	the	boundary,	
becomes grounded beyond the boundary while in contact 
with the ball, before completing the catch.
 19.5 Fielder grounded beyond the boundary
	 19.5.1	 A	fielder	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	if	some	part	of	her	
person is in contact with any of the following:
	 –		the	boundary	or	any	part	of	an	object	used	to	mark	 
the boundary;
	 –		the	ground	beyond	the	boundary;
	 –		any	object	that	is	in	contact	with	the	ground	beyond	 
the boundary;
	 –		another	fielder	who	is	grounded	beyond	the	boundary.
	 19.5.2	 A	fielder	who	is	not	in	contact	with	the	ground	is	considered	to	
be	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	if	her	final	contact	with	the	
ground,	before	her	first	contact	with	the	ball	after	it	has	been	
delivered by the bowler, was not entirely within the boundary.
 19.6 Boundary allowances
 19.6.1 6 runs shall be allowed for a boundary 6; and 4 runs for a 
boundary 4. See also clause 19.7.
 19.7 Runs scored from boundaries
 19.7.1 A boundary 6 will be scored if and only if the ball has been struck 
by	the	bat	and	is	first	grounded	beyond	the	boundary	without 	
having	been	in	contact	with	the	ground	within	the	field	of	play. 	
This	shall	apply	even	if	the	ball	has	previously	touched	a	fielder.
 19.7.2 A boundary 4 will be scored when a ball that is grounded 
beyond the boundary
	 –		whether	struck	by	the	bat	or	not,	was	first	grounded	within	
the boundary, or
	 –		has	not	been	struck	by	the	bat.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.40 9.41 20.4.2.7 there is an instance of a deliberate attempt to distract 
under either of clauses 41.4 (Deliberate attempt 
to distract striker) or 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, 
deception or obstruction of batter). The ball shall not 
count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.8 the bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery.
 20.4.2.9 the ball does not leave the bowler’s hand for any reason 
other than an attempt to run out the non-striker under 
clause 41.16 (Non-striker leaving her ground early).
	 20.4.2.10	 satisfied	that	the	ball	in	play	cannot	be	recovered.
 20.4.2.11 required to do so under any of the Playing Conditions 
not included above.
 20.5 Ball ceases to be dead
	 	 The	ball	ceases	to	be	dead	–	that	is,	it	comes	into	play	–	when	the	bowler 	
starts her run-up or, if there is no run-up, starts her bowling action.
 20.6 Dead ball; ball counting as one of over
 20.6.1 When a ball which has been delivered is called dead or is to be 
considered dead then, other than as in clause 20.6.2,
 20.6.1.1 it will not count in the over if the striker has not had 
an opportunity to play it.
 20.6.1.2 Unless No ball or Wide ball has been called, it will be 
a valid ball if the striker has had an opportunity to 
play it, except in the circumstances of clauses 20.4.2.6 
and 24.4 ( Player returning without permission), 28.2 
(Fielding the ball), 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract 
striker) and 41.5 (Deliberate distraction, deception or 
obstruction of batter).
 20.6.2 In clause 20.4.2.5, the ball will not count in the over only if both 
conditions of not attempting to play the ball and having an 
adequate reason for not being ready are met. Otherwise the 
delivery will be a valid ball.
 21 NO BALL
 21.1 Mode of delivery
 21.1.1 The umpire shall ascertain whether the bowler intends to bowl 
right handed or left handed, over or round the wicket, and shall 
so inform the striker.
  It is unfair if the bowler fails to notify the umpire of a change in 
her mode of delivery. In this case the umpire shall call and signal 
No ball.
 21.1.2 Underarm bowling shall not be permitted. 20.1.2 The ball shall be considered to be dead when it is clear to the 
bowler’s	end	umpire	that	the	fielding	side	and	both	batters	at	
the wicket have ceased to regard it as in play.
	 20.1.3	 In	a	match	where	cameras	are	being	used	on	or	over	the	field	
of play (e.g. Spydercam), should a ball that has been hit by the 
batter make contact, while still in play, with the camera, its 
apparatus	or	its	cable,	either	umpire	shall	call	and	signal	‘dead	
ball’. The ball shall not count as one of the over and no runs shall 
be scored. If the delivery was called a No ball it shall count and 
the No ball penalty shall be applied. No other runs (including 
penalty runs) apart from the No ball penalty shall be scored.
	 20.1.4	 Should	a	ball	thrown	by	a	fielder	make	contact	with	a	camera	on	
or	over	the	field	of	play,	its	apparatus	or	its	cable,	either	umpire	
shall call and signal dead ball. Unless this was already a No ball 
or Wide, the ball shall count as one of the over. All runs scored 
to that point shall count, plus the run in progress if the batters 
have already crossed.
 20.1.5 Refer also to paragraph 2.6 of Appendix D.
	 20.2	 Ball	finally	settled
	 	 Whether	the	ball	is	finally	settled	or	not	is	a	matter	for	the	umpire	alone	
to decide.
 20.3 Call of Over or Time
  Neither the call of Over (see clause 17.4), nor the call of Time (see clause 
12.2) is to be made until the ball is dead, either under clauses 20.1 or 20.4.
 20.4 Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball
 20.4.1 When the ball has become dead under clause 20.1, the bowler’s 
end umpire may call and signal Dead ball if it is necessary to 
inform the players.
 20.4.2 Either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball when
 20.4.2.1 intervening in a case of unfair play.
 20.4.2.2 a possibly serious injury to a player or umpire occurs.
 20.4.2.3 leaving his/her normal position for consultation.
 20.4.2.4 one or both bails fall from the striker’s wicket before 
the striker has had the opportunity of playing the ball.
 20.4.2.5 the striker is not ready for the delivery of the ball and, 
if the ball is delivered, makes no attempt to play it. 
Provided	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	the	striker	had	
adequate reason for not being ready, the ball shall not 
count as one of the over.
 20.4.2.6 the striker is distracted by any noise or movement or in 
any other way while preparing to receive, or receiving 
a delivery. This shall apply whether the source of the 
distraction is within the match or outside it. Note also 
clause 20.4.2.7. The ball shall not count as one of the over.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.42 9.43 21.5 Fair delivery – the feet
  For a delivery to be fair in respect of the feet, in the delivery stride
 21.5.1 the bowler’s back foot must land within and not touching the 
return crease appertaining to her stated mode of delivery.
 21.5.2 the bowler’s front foot must land with some part of the foot, 
whether grounded or raised
	 –		on	the	same	side	of	the	imaginary	line	joining	the	two	middle	
stumps as the return crease described in clause 21.5.1, and
	 –		behind	the	popping	crease.
	 	 If	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	is	satisfied	that	any	of	these	three	
conditions have not been met, he/she shall call and signal No 
ball. See clause 41.8 (Bowling of deliberate front foot No ball).
 21.6 Bowler breaking wicket in delivering ball
  Either umpire shall call and signal No ball if, other than in an attempt to 
run out the non-striker under clause 41.16, the bowler breaks the wicket 
at any time after the ball comes into play and before completion of the 
stride after the delivery stride. This shall include any clothing or other 
object that falls from her person and breaks the wicket.
 21.7 Ball bouncing more than once, rolling along the ground or pitching 
off the pitch
  The umpire shall call and signal No ball if a ball which he/she considers 
to have been delivered, without having previously touched bat or 
person of the striker,
	 –	 bounces	more	than	once
	 –		or	rolls	along	the	ground	before	it	reaches	the	popping	crease.
	 –		or	pitches	wholly	or	partially	off	the	pitch	as	defined	in	clause	6.1	
(Area of pitch) before it reaches the line of the striker’s wicket.
 21.8 Ball coming to rest in front of striker’s wicket
  If a ball delivered by the bowler comes to rest in front of the line of the 
striker’s wicket, without having previously touched the bat or person of 
the striker, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and immediately call 
and signal Dead ball.
 21.9 Fielder intercepting a delivery
  If except in the circumstances of clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper) 
a	ball,	delivered	by	the	bowler,	makes	contact	with	any	part	of	a	fielder’s	
person before it either makes contact with the striker’s bat or person, or 
it passes the striker’s wicket, the umpire shall call and signal No ball and 
immediately call and signal Dead ball.
 21.10 Ball bouncing over head height of striker
  See clauses 22.1.1.2 and 41.6.1.7. 21.2 Fair delivery – the arm
  For a delivery to be fair in respect of the arm the ball must not be 
delivered with an Illegal Bowling Action.
	 	 An	Illegal	Bowling	Action	is	defined	as	a	bowling	action	where	a	
bowler’s Elbow Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured from the point 
at which the bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the point at which 
the ball is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for 
the purposes of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).
  Should either umpire or the ICC Match Referee suspect that a bowler 
has used an Illegal Bowling Action, they shall complete the ICC Bowling 
Action Report Form at the conclusion of the match, as set out in the 
Illegal Bowling Regulations.
 21.3 Ball thrown or delivered underarm – action by umpires
 21.3.1 If, in the opinion of either umpire, the ball has been thrown 
(where such mode of delivery does not correspond to the 
bowler’s normal bowling action) or delivered underarm, he/she 
shall call and signal No ball and, when the ball is dead, inform 
the other umpire of the reason for the call.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		warn	the	bowler,	indicating	that	this	is	a	first	and	final	warning. 	
This warning shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
	 –		inform	the	batters	at	the	wicket	of	what	has	occurred.
 21.3.2 If either umpire considers that, in that innings, a further delivery 
by the same bowler is thrown (where such mode of delivery 
does not correspond to the bowler’s normal bowling action) or 
delivered underarm, he/she shall call and signal No ball and when 
the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the reason for the call.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	
immediately from bowling. The over shall, if applicable, be 
completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled 
the previous over or part thereof nor be allowed to bowl any 
part of the next over. The bowler thus suspended shall not 
bowl again in that innings.
	 –		inform	the	batters	at	the	wicket	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	
the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action.
 21.3.3 The umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as 
possible after the match to the ICC Match Referee, who shall 
take such action as is considered appropriate against the  
bowler concerned.
 21.4 Bowler throwing towards striker’s end before delivery
  If the bowler throws the ball towards the striker’s end before entering 
the delivery stride, either umpire shall call and signal No ball. See clause 
41.17 (Batters stealing a run).
	 	 However,	the	procedure	stated	in	clause	21.3	of	caution,	informing,	final	
warning, action against the bowler and reporting shall not apply.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.44 9.45 21.19 Free Hit 
 21.19.1 In addition to the above, the delivery following a No ball called 
(all modes of No ball) shall be a free hit for whichever batter is 
facing it. If the delivery for the free hit is not a legitimate delivery 
(any kind of No ball or a Wide ball) then the next delivery will 
become a free hit for whichever batter is facing it. 
 21.19.2 For any free hit, the striker can be dismissed only under the 
circumstances that apply for a No ball, even if the delivery for the 
free hit is called Wide ball. 
	 21.19.3	 Neither	field	changes	nor	the	exchange	of	individuals	between	
fielding	positions	are	permitted	for	free	hit	deliveries	unless:
 21.19.3.1 There is a change of striker (the provisions of clause 
41.2 shall apply), or
	 21.19.3.2	 The	No	Ball	was	the	result	of	a	fielding	restriction	
breach,	in	which	case	the	field	may	be	changed	to	the	
extent of correcting the breach.
 21.19.4 For clarity, the bowler can change her mode of delivery for the 
free hit delivery. In such circumstances clause 21.1 shall apply.
 21.19.5 The umpires will signal a free hit by (after the normal No Ball 
signal) extending one arm straight upwards and moving it in a 
circular motion.
 22 WIDE BALL
 22.1 Judging a Wide
 22.1.1 If the bowler bowls a ball, not being a No ball, the umpire shall 
adjudge	it	a	Wide	if,	according	to	the	definition	in	clause	22.1.2
 22.1.1.1 the ball passes wide of where the striker is standing 
and which also would have passed wide of the striker 
standing in a normal guard position.
 22.1.1.2 the ball passes above the head height of the striker 
standing upright at the popping crease.
 22.1.2 The ball will be considered as passing wide of the striker unless it 
is	sufficiently	within	reach	for	her	to	be	able	to	hit	it	with	the	bat	
by means of a normal cricket stroke.
 22.1.3 Umpires are instructed to apply very strict and consistent 
interpretation in regard to this clause in order to prevent 
negative bowling wide of the wicket.
 22.2 Call and signal of Wide ball
  If the umpire adjudges a delivery to be a Wide he/she shall call and signal 
Wide ball as soon as the ball passes the striker’s wicket. It shall, however, 
be considered to have been a Wide from the instant that the bowler 
entered her delivery stride, even though it cannot be called Wide until it 
passes the striker’s wicket. 21.11 Call of No ball for infringement of other Playing Conditions
  In addition to the instances above, No ball is to be called and signalled 
as required by the following clauses:
	 	 Clause	27.3	–	Position	of	wicket-keeper	
	 	 Clause	28.4	–	Limitation	of	on	side	fielders
	 	 Clause	28.5	–	Fielders	not	to	encroach	on	pitch
	 	 Clause	41.6	–	Bowling	of	dangerous	and	unfair	short	pitched	deliveries
	 	 Clause	41.7	–	Bowling	of	dangerous	and	unfair	non-pitching	deliveries
	 	 Clause	41.8	–	Bowling	of	deliberate	front	foot	No	ball.
 21.12 Revoking a call of No ball
  An umpire shall revoke the call of No ball if Dead ball is called under 
any of clauses 20.4.2.4 to 20.4.2.9 (Umpire calling and signaling Dead 
ball). However, if a no ball is called in breach of clause 20.4.2.7 (41.4 
-	Deliberate	attempt	to	distract	striker	before	playing	the	ball	or	41.5	–	
Deliberate attempt of Distraction, Deception or Obstruction of striker 
after the stroke) the No ball will stand.
 21.13 No ball to over-ride Wide
  A call of No ball shall over-ride the call of Wide ball at any time. See 
clauses 22.1 (Judging a Wide) and 22.2 (Call and signal of Wide ball).
 21.14 Ball not dead
  The ball does not become dead on the call of No ball.
 21.15 Penalty for a No ball
  A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of No ball. 
Unless the call is revoked, the penalty shall stand even if a batter is 
dismissed. It shall be in addition to any other runs scored, any boundary 
allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.
 21.16 Runs resulting from a No ball – how scored
  The one run penalty shall be scored as a No ball extra and shall be 
debited against the bowler. If other Penalty runs have been awarded to 
either side these shall be scored as stated in clause 41.18 (Penalty runs). 
Any runs completed by the batters or any boundary allowance shall be 
credited to the striker if the ball has been struck by the bat; otherwise 
they shall also be scored as Byes or Leg byes as appropriate.
 21.17 No ball not to count
  A No ball shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of balls).
 21.18 Out from a No ball
  When No ball has been called, neither batter shall be out under any of 
the Playing Conditions except clause 34 (Hit the ball twice), clause 37 
(Obstructing	the	field)	or	clause	38	(Run	out).
 ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.46 9.47 23.2 Leg byes
	 23.2.1	 If	a	ball	delivered	by	the	bowler	first	strikes	the	person	of	the	
striker,	runs	shall	be	scored	only	if	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	
the striker has
  either attempted to play the ball with the bat
  or tried to avoid being hit by the ball.
	 23.2.2	 If	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	either	of	these	conditions	has	been	
met runs shall be scored as follows.
 23.2.2.1 If there is
  either no subsequent contact with the striker’s bat or 
person, or
  only inadvertent contact with the striker’s bat or 
person
  any runs completed by the batters or a boundary 
allowance shall be credited to the striker in the case 
of subsequent contact with her bat but otherwise to 
the batting side as in clause 23.2.3.
 23.2.2.2 If the striker wilfully makes a lawful second strike, 
clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once) and 
clause 34.4 (Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck 
more than once) shall apply.
 23.2.3 The runs in clause 23.2.2.1, unless credited to the striker, shall be 
scored as Leg byes.
  Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run penalty for 
the No ball shall be incurred.
 23.3 Leg byes not to be awarded
  If in the circumstance of clause 23.2.1 the umpire considers that neither of 
the conditions therein has been met, then Leg byes shall not be awarded.
  If the ball does not become dead for any other reason, the umpire shall 
call and signal Dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at 
the	completion	of	the	first	run.
  The umpire shall then:
 -  disallow all runs to the batting side;
 -  return any not out batter to her original end;
 -  signal No ball to the scorers if applicable;
 -  award any 5-run Penalty that is applicable except for Penalty runs 
under	clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side). 22.3 Revoking a call of Wide ball
 22.3.1 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if there is then any 
contact between the ball and the striker’s bat or person before 
the	ball	comes	into	contact	with	any	fielder.
 22.3.2 The umpire shall revoke the call of Wide ball if a delivery is called 
a No ball. See clause 21.13 (No ball to over-ride Wide).
 22.4 Delivery not a Wide
 22.4.1 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide, if the 
striker, by moving, either causes the ball to pass wide of her, as 
defined	in	clause	22.1.2	or	brings	the	ball	sufficiently	within	reach	
to be able to hit it by means of a normal cricket stroke.
 22.4.2 The umpire shall not adjudge a delivery as being a Wide if the 
ball touches the striker’s bat or person, but only as the ball 
passes the striker.
 22.5 Ball not dead
  The ball does not become dead on the call of Wide ball.
 22.6 Penalty for a Wide
  A penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of Wide ball. 
Unless the call is revoked, see clause 22.3, this penalty shall stand even 
if a batter is dismissed, and shall be in addition to any other runs scored, 
any boundary allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties.
 22.7 Runs resulting from a Wide – how scored
  All runs completed by the batters or a boundary allowance, together 
with the penalty for the Wide, shall be scored as Wide balls. Apart from 
any award of 5 Penalty runs, all runs resulting from a Wide shall be 
debited against the bowler.
 22.8 Wide not to count
  A Wide shall not count as one of the over. See clause 17.3 (Validity of 
balls).
 22.9 Out from a Wide
  When Wide ball has been called, neither batter shall be out under 
any of the Playing Conditions except clause 35 (Hit wicket), clause 37 
(Obstructing	the	field),	clause	38	(Run	out)	or	clause	39	(Stumped).
 23 BYE AND LEG BYE
 23.1 Byes
  If the ball, delivered by the bowler, not being a Wide, passes the striker 
without touching her bat or person, any runs completed by the batters 
from that delivery, or a boundary allowance, shall be credited as Byes 
to the batting side. Additionally, if the delivery is a No ball, the one run 
penalty for such a delivery shall be incurred.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.48 9.49 24.2.3.2 The player shall not be permitted to bat in the 
match until her team’s batting innings has been in 
progress for the length of playing time that is equal 
to the unexpired Penalty time carried forward from 
the previous innings. However, once her side has 
lost	five	wickets	in	its	batting	innings,	she	may	bat	
immediately. If any unexpired penalty time remains at 
the end of that batting innings, it is carried forward to 
the next and subsequent innings of the match.
	 24.2.4	 If	the	player	leaves	the	field	before	having	served	all	of	her	Penalty 	
time, the balance is carried forward as unserved Penalty time.
 24.2.5 On any occasion of absence, the amount of playing time for 
which	the	player	is	off	the	field	shall	be	added	to	any	Penalty	
time that remains unserved, subject to a maximum cumulative 
Penalty time of 35 minutes, and that player shall not bowl until 
all of her Penalty time has been served.
 24.2.6 For the purposes of clauses 24.2.3.1 and 24.2.3.2, playing time 
shall comprise the time play is in progress excluding intervals, 
intervals	between	innings	and	official	drinks	intervals.	For	
clarity, a player’s Penalty time will continue to expire after she is 
dismissed, for the remainder of her team’s batting innings.
 24.2.7 If there is an unscheduled break in play, the stoppage time shall 
count as Penalty time served, provided that,
	 24.2.7.1	 the	fielder	who	was	on	the	field	of	play	at	the	start	of	
the	break	either	takes	the	field	on	the	resumption	of	
play, or her side is now batting.
	 24.2.7.2	 the	fielder	who	was	already	off	the	field	at	the	start	
of	the	break	notifies	an	umpire	in	person	as	soon	as	
she	is	able	to	participate,	and	either	takes	the	field	
on the resumption of play, or her side is now batting. 
Stoppage	time	before	an	umpire	has	been	so	notified	
shall not count towards unserved Penalty time.
 24.2.8 Any unserved Penalty time shall be carried forward into the 
next innings of the match, as applicable.
 24.3 Penalty time not incurred
  A nominated player’s absence will not incur Penalty time if,
 24.3.1 she has suffered an external blow during the match and, as a 
result,	has	justifiably	left	the	field	or	is	unable	to	take	the	field.
 24.3.2 in the opinion of the umpires, the player has been absent or has 
left	the	field	for	other	wholly	acceptable	reasons,	which	shall	
not include illness or internal injury.
	 24.3.3	 the	player	is	absent	from	the	field	for	a	period	of	8	minutes	or	less. 24 FIELDER’S ABSENCE; SUBSTITUTES
	 24.1	 Substitute	fielders
	 24.1.1	 The	umpires	shall	allow	a	substitute	fielder
	 24.1.1.1	 if	they	are	satisfied	that	a	fielder	has	been	injured	or	
become ill and that this occurred during the match, or
 24.1.1.2 for any other wholly acceptable reason.
  In all other circumstances, a substitute is not allowed.
 24.1.2 A substitute shall not bowl or act as captain but may act as 
wicket-keeper only with the consent of the umpires. Note, 
however, clause 42.4.1.
	 24.1.3	 A	nominated	player	may	bowl	or	field	even	though	a	substitute	
has previously acted for her, subject to 24.2 and 24.3.
	 24.1.4	 Squad	members	of	the	fielding	or	batting	team	who	are	not	
playing in the match and who are not acting as substitute 
fielders	shall	be	required	to	wear	a	team	training	bib	whilst	on	
the playing area (including the area between the boundary and 
the perimeter fencing).
	 24.2	 Fielder	absent	or	leaving	the	field	of	play
	 24.2.1	 A	player	going	briefly	outside	the	boundary	while	carrying	out	
any	duties	as	a	fielder	is	not	absent	from	the	field	of	play	nor,	for	
the purposes of this clause, is she to be regarded as having left 
the	field	of	play.
	 24.2.2	 If	a	fielder	fails	to	take	the	field	at	the	start	of	play	or	at	any	later	
time,	or	leaves	the	field	during	play,
 24.2.2.1 an umpire shall be informed of the reason for  
this absence.
	 24.2.2.2	 she	shall	not	thereafter	come	on	to	the	field	of	play	
during a session of play without the consent of the 
umpire. See clause 24.4. The umpire shall give such 
consent as soon as it is practicable.
	 24.2.3	 If	a	player	is	absent	from	the	field	for	longer	than	8	minutes,	the	
following restrictions shall apply to their future participation in 
the match:
 24.2.3.1 The player shall not be permitted to bowl in the match 
until	she	has	either	been	able	to	field,	or	her	team	has 	
subsequently been batting, for the total length of 
playing time for which the player was absent (hereafter 
referred to as Penalty time). A player’s unexpired 
Penalty time shall be limited to a maximum of 35 
minutes. If any unexpired Penalty time remains at the 
end of an innings, it is carried forward to the next and 
subsequent innings of the match.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.50 9.51 25.5 Runners
  Runners shall not be permitted.
 26 PRACTICE ON THE FIELD
 26.1 Practice on the pitch or the rest of the square
 26.1.1 There shall not be any practice on the pitch at any time.
 26.1.2 There shall not be any practice on the rest of the square at any 
time except with the approval of the umpires.
 26.1.2.1 If approved by the umpires, the use of the square for 
practice on any day of any match will be restricted to 
any	netted	practice	area	or	bowling	strips	specifically	
prepared on the edge of the square for that purpose.
 26.1.2.2 Bowling practice on the bowling strips referred to 
above shall also be permitted during the interval 
(and change of innings if not the interval) unless the 
umpires consider that, in the prevailing conditions 
of ground and weather, it will be detrimental to the 
surface of the square.
	 26.2	 Practice	on	the	outfield
 26.2.1 On any day of the match, all forms of practice are permitted on 
the	outfield
	 –		before	the	start	of	play
	 –		after	the	close	of	play,	and
	 –		during	the	interval	or	between	innings
	 	 providing	the	umpires	are	satisfied	that	such	practice	will	not	
cause	significant	deterioration	in	the	condition	of	the	outfield.
 26.2.2 Between the call of Play and the call of Time, practice shall be 
permitted	on	the	outfield,	providing	that	all	of	the	following	
conditions are met:
	 –		only	the	fielders	as	defined	in	paragraph	7	of	Appendix	A	
participate in such practice.
	 –		no	ball	other	than	the	match	ball	is	used	for	this	practice.
	 –		no	bowling	practice	takes	place	in	the	area	between	the	
square and the boundary in a direction parallel to the  
match pitch.
	 –		the	umpires	are	satisfied	that	it	will	not	contravene	either	
of clauses 41.3 (The match ball changing its condition) or 41.9 
(Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	side).
	 	 Bowling	a	ball,	using	a	short	run	up	to	a	player	in	the	outfield	is	
not to be regarded as bowling practice but shall be subject to 
the other conditions in this clause. 24.4 Player returning without permission
	 	 If	a	player	comes	on	to	the	field	of	play	in	contravention	of	clause	24.2.2	
and comes into contact with the ball while it is in play, the ball shall 
immediately become dead.
	 –		The	umpire	shall	award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		Runs	completed	by	the	batters	shall	be	scored	together	with	the	run	
in progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
	 –		The	ball	shall	not	count	as	one	of	the	over.
	 –		The	umpire	shall	inform	the	other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	
side, the batters and, as soon as practicable, the captain of the 
batting side of the reason for this action.
 25 BATTER’S INNINGS
 25.1 Eligibility to act as a batter
  Only a nominated player may bat and, subject to clause 25.3, may do so 
even	though	a	substitute	fielder	has	previously	acted	for	her.
 25.2 Commencement of a batter’s innings
	 	 The	innings	of	the	first	two	batters,	and	that	of	any	new	batter	on	the	
resumption of play after a call of Time, shall commence at the call of 
Play. At any other time, a batter’s innings shall be considered to have 
commenced	when	that	batter	first	steps	onto	the	field	of	play.
 25.3 Restriction on batter commencing an innings
 25.3.1 If a member of the batting side has unserved Penalty time, see 
clause 24.2.7, that player shall not be permitted to bat until that 
Penalty time has been served. However, even if the unserved 
Penalty time has not expired, that player may bat after her side 
has lost 5 wickets.
 25.3.2 A member of the batting side’s Penalty time is served during 
Playing time, in the event of an unscheduled stoppage, the 
stoppage	time	after	the	batter	notifies	an	umpire	in	person	that	
she is able to participate shall count as Penalty time served.
 25.4 Batter retiring
 25.4.1 A batter may retire at any time during her innings when the ball 
is dead. The umpires, before allowing play to proceed, shall be 
informed of the reason for a batter retiring.
 25.4.2 If a batter retires because of illness, injury or any other 
unavoidable cause, that batter is entitled to resume her innings. 
If for any reason this does not happen, that batter is to be 
recorded	as	‘Retired	–	not	out’.
 25.4.3 If a batter retires for any reason other than as in clause 25.4.2, 
the innings of that batter may be resumed only with the 
consent of the opposing captain. If for any reason her innings is 
not	resumed,	that	batter	is	to	be	recorded	as	‘Retired	–	out’.
 25.4.4 If after retiring a batter resumes her innings, subject to the 
requirements of clauses 25.4.2 and 25.4.3, it shall be only at the 
fall of a wicket or the retirement of another batter.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.52 9.53 27.2.3 The top edge of the webbing shall not protrude beyond the 
straight	line	joining	the	top	of	the	index	finger	to	the	top	of	the	
thumb and shall be taut when a hand wearing the glove has the 
thumb fully extended. See paragraph 3 of Appendix B.
 27.3 Position of wicket-keeper
 27.3.1 The wicket-keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket at the 
striker’s end from the moment the ball comes into play until a ball 
delivered by the bowler
  touches the bat or person of the striker, or
  passes the wicket at the striker’s end, or
  the striker attempts a run.
 27.3.2 In the event of the wicket-keeper contravening this clause, 
the striker’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball as soon as 
applicable after the delivery of the ball.
 27.4 Movement by wicket-keeper
 27.4.1 After the ball comes into play and before it reaches the striker, 
it	is	unfair	if	the	wicket-keeper	significantly	alters	her	position	in	
relation to the striker’s wicket, except for the following:
 27.4.1.1 movement of a few paces forward for a slower delivery, 
unless in so doing it brings her within reach of the wicket.
 27.4.1.2 lateral movement in response to the direction in 
which the ball has been delivered.
 27.4.1.3 movement in response to the stroke that the striker 
is playing or that her actions suggest she intends to 
play. However the provisions of clause 27.3 shall apply.
 27.4.2 In the event of unfair movement by the wicket-keeper, either 
umpire shall call and signal Dead ball.
 27.5 Restriction on actions of wicket-keeper
  If, in the opinion of either umpire, the wicket-keeper interferes with the 
striker’s right to play the ball and to guard her wicket, clause 20.4.2.6 
(Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball) shall apply.
  If, however, either umpire considers that the interference by the wicket-
keeper was wilful, then clause 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to distract 
striker) shall also apply.
 27.6 Interference with wicket-keeper by striker
  If, in playing at the ball or in the legitimate defence of her wicket, the 
striker interferes with the wicket-keeper, she shall not be out except as 
provided for in clause 37.3 (Obstructing a ball from being caught). 26.3 Trial run-up
  A bowler is permitted to have a trial run-up provided the umpire is 
satisfied	that	it	will	not	contravene	either	of	clauses	41.9	(Time	wasting	
by	the	fielding	side)	or	41.12	(Fielder	damaging	the	pitch).
 26.4 Penalties for contravention
  All forms of practice are subject to the provisions of clauses 41.3 (The 
match	ball	–	changing	its	condition),	41.9	(Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	
side) and 41.12 (Fielder damaging the pitch).
 26.4.1 If there is a contravention of any of the provisions of clause 26.1 
or 26.2, the umpire shall
	 –		warn	the	player	that	the	practice	is	not	permitted;
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	both	
captains of the reason for this action.
 26.4.1.1 If the contravention is by a batter at the wicket, 
the umpire shall inform the other batter and each 
incoming batter that the warning has been issued. 
The warning shall apply to the team of that player 
throughout the match.
 26.4.2 If during the match there is any further contravention by any 
player of that team, the umpire shall
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	opposing	side;
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire,	the	scorers	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, both captains, and, if the contravention is during 
play, the batters at the wicket.
 27 THE WICKET-KEEPER
 27.1 Protective equipment
	 	 The	wicket-keeper	is	the	only	fielder	permitted	to	wear	gloves	and 	
external leg guards. If these are worn, they are to be regarded as part 
of her person for the purposes of clause 28.2 (Fielding the ball). If by the 
wicket-keeper’s actions and positioning when the ball comes into play 
it is apparent to the umpires that she will not be able to carry out the 
normal duties of a wicket-keeper, she shall forfeit this right and also the 
right to be recognised as a wicket-keeper for the purposes of clauses 33.2 
(A fair catch), 39 (Stumped), 28.1 (Protective equipment), 28.4 (Limitation 
of	on-side	fielders)	and	28.5	(Fielders	not	to	encroach	on	pitch).
 27.2 Gloves
 27.2.1 If, as permitted under clause 27.1, the wicket-keeper wears 
gloves,	they	shall	have	no	webbing	between	the	fingers	except	
joining	index	finger	and	thumb,	where	webbing	may	be	inserted	
as a means of support.
 27.2.2 If used, the webbing shall be a single piece of non-stretch 
material which, although it may have facing material attached, 
shall have no reinforcements or tucks.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.54 9.55 28.3.2.3 any runs completed by the batters before the 
ball strikes the protective helmet shall be scored, 
together with the run in progress if the batters had 
already crossed at the instant of the ball striking the 
protective helmet.
 28.3.3 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described in 
clause 28.3.1, unless the circumstances of clause 23.3 (Leg byes 
not to be awarded) or clause 34 (Hit the ball twice), apply, the 
umpire shall:
	 –		permit	the	batters’s	runs	as	in	clause	28.3.2.3	to	be	scored
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	as	in	clause	28.3.2.2
	 –		award	any	other	Penalty	runs	due	to	the	batting	side.
 28.3.4 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described 
in clause 28.3.1, and the circumstances of clause 23.3 (Leg byes 
not to be awarded) or clause 34 (Hit the ball twice) apply, the 
umpire shall:
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side
	 –		return	any	not	out	batter	to	her	original	end
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable
	 –		award	any	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	Penalty	
runs under clause 28.3.2.
	 28.4	 Limitation	of	on	side	fielders
	 28.4.1	 At	the	instant	of	delivery,	there	may	not	be	more	than	5	fielders	
on the leg side.
 28.4.2 At the instant of the bowler’s delivery there shall not be more 
than	two	fielders,	other	than	the	wicket-keeper,	behind	the	
popping	crease	on	the	on	side.	A	fielder	will	be	considered	to	
be behind the popping crease unless the whole of her person 
whether grounded or in the air is in front of this line.
	 28.4.3	 In	the	event	of	infringement	of	this	clause	by	any	fielder,	 
the striker’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball.
 28.5 Fielders not to encroach on pitch
  While the ball is in play and until the ball has made contact with the 
striker’s	bat	or	person,	or	has	passed	the	striker’s	bat,	no	fielder,	other	
than the bowler, may have any part of her person grounded on or 
extended over the pitch.
	 	 In	the	event	of	infringement	of	this	clause	by	any	fielder	other	than	the	
wicket-keeper, the bowler’s end umpire shall call and signal No ball as 
soon as possible after delivery of the ball. Note, however, clause 27.3 
(Position of wicket-keeper). 28 THE FIELDER
 28.1 Protective equipment
	 	 No	fielder	other	than	the	wicket-keeper	shall	be	permitted	to	wear	
gloves or external leg guards. In addition, protection for the hand or 
fingers	may	be	worn	only	with	the	consent	of	the	umpires.
 28.2 Fielding the ball
	 28.2.1	 A	fielder	may	field	the	ball	with	any	part	of	her	person	(see	
paragraph 12 of Appendix A), except as in clause 28.2.1.2. 
However,	she	will	be	deemed	to	have	fielded	the	ball	illegally	if,	
while the ball is in play she wilfully
	 28.2.1.1	 uses	anything	other	than	part	of	her	person	to	field	
the ball.
 28.2.1.2 extends her clothing with her hands and uses this to 
field	the	ball.
 28.2.1.3 discards a piece of clothing, equipment or any other 
object which subsequently makes contact with the ball.
	 28.2.2	 It	is	not	illegal	fielding	if	the	ball	in	play	makes	contact	with	a	
piece of clothing, equipment or any other object which has 
accidentally	fallen	from	the	fielder’s	person.
	 28.2.3	 If	a	fielder	illegally	fields	the	ball,	the	ball	shall	immediately	
become dead and
	 –		the	penalty	for	a	No	ball	or	a	Wide	shall	stand.
	 –		any	runs	completed	by	the	batters	shall	be	credited	to	the	
batting side, together with the run in progress if the batters 
had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
	 –		the	ball	shall	not	count	as	one	of	the	over.
 In addition the umpire shall:
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –	inform	the	other	umpire	and	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
of the reason for this action.
	 –		inform	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	the	captain	of	
the batting side of what has occurred.
	 28.3	 Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side
	 28.3.1	 Protective	helmets,	when	not	in	use	by	fielders,	may	not	be	
placed on the ground, above the surface except behind the 
wicket-keeper and in line with both sets of stumps.
 28.3.2 If the ball while in play strikes a helmet, placed as described in 
clause 28.3.1,
 28.3.2.1 the ball shall become dead
  and, subject to clause 28.3.3,
 28.3.2.2 an award of 5 Penalty runs shall be made to the 
batting side;ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.56 9.57 28.7.6 In circumstances when the number of overs of the batting team 
is reduced, the number of Powerplay overs shall be reduced 
in accordance with the table below. For the sake of clarity, it 
should be noted that the table shall apply to both the 1st and 
2nd innings of the match. 
TOTAL  
OVERS IN  
INNINGSNUMBER OF OVERS FOR WHICH FIELDING 
RESTRICTIONS IN CLAUSES 28.7.2 AND 28.7.4 
ABOVE WILL APPLY
5-8 2
9-11 3
12-14 4
15-18 5
19-20 6
 28.7.7 If an innings is interrupted during an over and if on the 
resumption of play, due to the reduced number of overs of the 
batting team, the required number of Powerplay overs have 
already been bowled, the remaining deliveries in the over to be 
completed	shall	not	be	subject	to	the	fielding	restrictions.
 28.7.7.1 In the event of an infringement of any of the above 
fielding	restrictions,	the	square	leg	umpire	shall	call	
and	signal	‘No	Ball’.
 29 THE WICKET IS DOWN
 29.1 Wicket put down
 29.1.1 The wicket is put down if a bail is completely removed from the 
top of the stumps, or a stump is struck out of the ground,
 29.1.1.1 by the ball,
 29.1.1.2 by the striker’s bat if held or by any part of the bat 
that she is holding,
 29.1.1.3 for the purpose of this clause only, by the striker’s 
bat not in hand, or by any part of the bat which has 
become detached,
 29.1.1.4 by the striker’s person or by any part of her clothing or 
equipment becoming detached from her person,
	 29.1.1.5	 by	a	fielder	with	her	hand	or	arm,	providing	that	the	
ball is held in the hand or hands so used, or in the 
hand of the arm so used.
	 29.1.1.6	 The	wicket	is	also	put	down	if	a	fielder	strikes	or	pulls	
a stump out of the ground as in clause 29.1.1.5.
 29.1.2 The disturbance of a bail, whether temporary or not, shall not 
constitute its complete removal from the top of the stumps, but 
if a bail in falling lodges between two of the stumps this shall be 
regarded as complete removal.	 28.6	 Movement	by	any	fielder	other	than	the	wicket-keeper
	 28.6.1	 Any	movement	by	any	fielder,	excluding	the	wicket-keeper,	
after the ball comes into play and before the ball reaches the 
striker, is unfair except for the following:
 28.6.1.1 minor adjustments to stance or position in relation to 
the striker’s wicket.
	 28.6.1.2	 movement	by	any	fielder,	other	than	a	close	fielder,	
towards the striker or the striker’s wicket that does 
not	significantly	alter	the	position	of	the	fielder.
	 28.6.1.3	 movement	by	any	fielder	in	response	to	the	stroke	
that the striker is playing or that her actions suggest 
she intends to play.
	 28.6.2	 In	all	circumstances	clause	28.4	(Limitation	of	on	side	fielders)	
shall apply.
 28.6.3 In the event of such unfair movement, either umpire shall call 
and signal Dead ball.
 28.6.4 Note also the provisions of clause 41.4 (Deliberate attempt to 
distract striker). See also clause 27.4 (Movement by wicket-keeper).
	 28.7	 Restrictions	on	the	placement	of	fielders	
 28.7.1 In addition to the restrictions contained in clause 28.4 above, 
further	fielding	restrictions	shall	apply	to	certain	overs	in	each 	
innings.	The	nature	of	such	fielding	restrictions	 and	the	overs	during	
which they shall apply are set out in the following paragraphs. 
	 28.7.2	 Subject	to	28.7.6	below	these	additional	fielding	restrictions	
shall	apply	to	the	first	6	overs	of	each	innings	(Powerplay	overs).
	 28.7.3	 The	following	fielding	restrictions	shall	apply:	
	 28.7.3.1	 Two	semi-circles	shall	be	drawn	on	the	field	of	play.	
The semi-circles shall have as their centre the middle 
stump at either end of the pitch. The radius of each of 
the semi-circles shall be 25.15 yards (23 metres). The 
semi-circles shall be linked by two parallel straight 
lines	drawn	on	the	field.	(Refer	to	paragraph	2	of	
Appendix	C).	The	fielding	restriction	areas	should	be	
marked	by	continuous	painted	white	lines	or	‘dots’	at	
5	yard	(4.57	metres)	intervals,	each	‘dot’	to	be	covered	
by a white plastic or rubber (but not metal) disc 
measuring 7 inches (18 cm) in diameter. 
	 28.7.4	 During	the	Powerplay	overs	only	two	fielders	shall	be	permitted	
outside	this	fielding	restriction	area	at	the	instant	of	delivery.	
	 28.7.5	 During	the	non	Powerplay	overs,	no	more	than	four	fielders	shall	
be	permitted	outside	the	fielding	restriction	area	referred	to	in	
clause 28.7.3 above.
 ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.58 9.59 30.2.3 If there is no batter in either ground, then each ground belongs 
to whichever batter is nearer to it, or, if the batters are level, 
to whichever batter was nearer to it immediately prior to their 
drawing level.
 30.2.4 If a ground belongs to one batter then the other ground 
belongs to the other batter, irrespective of her position.
 30.3 Position of non-striker
  The non-striker, when standing at the bowler’s end, should be 
positioned on the opposite side of the wicket to that from which the 
ball is being delivered, unless a request to do otherwise is granted by 
the umpire.
 31 APPEALS
 31.1 Umpire not to give batter out without an appeal
  Neither umpire shall give a batter out, even though she may be out 
under	these	Playing	Conditions,	unless	appealed	to	by	a	fielder.	This	
shall not debar a batter who is out under these Playing Conditions 
from leaving the wicket without an appeal having been made. Note, 
however, the provisions of clause 31.7.
 31.2 Batter dismissed
  A batter is dismissed if she is
  either given out by an umpire, on appeal
  or out under these Playing Conditions and leaves the wicket as in clause 31.1.
 31.3 Timing of appeals
  For an appeal to be valid, it must be made before the bowler begins her 
run-up or, if there is no run-up, her bowling action to deliver the next 
ball, and before Time has been called.
  The call of Over does not invalidate an appeal made prior to the start of 
the following over, provided Time has not been called. See clauses 12.2 
(Call of Time) and 17.2 (Start of an over).
 31.4 Appeal “How’s That?”
  An appeal “How’s That?” covers all ways of being out.
 31.5 Answering appeals
  The striker’s end umpire shall answer all appeals arising out of any of clauses 
35 (Hit wicket), 39 (Stumped) or 38 (Run out) when this occurs at the 
wicket-keeper’s end. The bowler’s end umpire shall answer all other appeals.
  When an appeal is made, each umpire shall answer on any matter that 
falls within his/her jurisdiction.
  When a batter has been given Not out, either umpire may answer an 
appeal, made in accordance with clause 31.3, if it is on a further matter 
and is within his/her jurisdiction. 29.2 One bail off
	 	 If	one	bail	is	off,	it	shall	be	sufficient	for	the	purpose	of	putting	the	
wicket down to remove the remaining bail or to strike or pull any of the 
three stumps out of the ground, in any of the ways stated in clause 29.1.
 29.3 Remaking wicket
  If a wicket is broken or put down while the ball is in play, it shall not be 
remade by an umpire until the ball is dead. See clause 20 (Dead ball). 
Any	fielder	may,	however,	while	the	ball	is	in	play,
	 –		replace	a	bail	or	bails	on	top	of	the	stumps.
	 –		put	back	one	or	more	stumps	into	the	ground	where	the	wicket	
originally stood.
 29.4 Dispensing with bails
  If the umpires have agreed to dispense with bails in accordance with 
clause 8.4 (Dispensing with bails), it is for the umpire concerned to 
decide whether or not the wicket has been put down.
 29.4.1 After a decision to play without bails, the wicket has been put 
down	if	the	umpire	concerned	is	satisfied	that	the	wicket	has 	
been struck by the ball, by the striker’s bat, person or items of her 
clothing or equipment as described in clauses 29.1.1.2, 29.1.1.3 or 
29.1.1.4,	or	by	a	fielder	in	the	manner	described	in	clause	29.1.1.5.
 29.4.2 If the wicket has already been broken or put down, clause 
29.4.1 shall apply to any stump or stumps still in the ground. 
Any	fielder	may	replace	a	stump	or	stumps,	in	accordance	with	
clause 29.3, in order to have an opportunity of putting the 
wicket down.
 30 BATTER OUT OF HER GROUND
 30.1 When out of her ground
 30.1.1 A batter shall be considered to be out of her ground unless 
some part of her person or bat is grounded behind the popping 
crease at that end.
 30.1.2 However, a batter shall not be considered to be out of her 
ground if, in running or diving towards her ground and beyond, 
and having grounded some part of her person or bat beyond 
the popping crease, there is subsequent loss of contact 
between the ground and any part of her person or bat, or 
between the bat and person.
 30.2 Which is a batter’s ground
 30.2.1 If only one batter is within a ground, it is her ground and will 
remain so even if she is later joined there by the other batter.
 30.2.2 If both batters are in the same ground and one of them 
subsequently leaves it, the ground belongs to the batter who 
remains in it.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.60 9.61 33 CAUGHT
 33.1 Out Caught
  The striker is out Caught if a ball delivered by the bowler, not being a No 
ball, touches her bat without having previously been in contact with any 
fielder,	and	is	subsequently	held	by	a	fielder	as	a	fair	catch,	as	described	
in clauses 33.2 and 33.3, before it touches the ground.
 33.2 A fair catch
 33.2.1 A catch will be fair only if, in every case
  either the ball, at any time
	 	 or	any	fielder	in	contact	with	the	ball,
  is not grounded beyond the boundary before the catch is 
completed. Note clauses 19.4 (Ball grounded beyond the 
boundary) and 19.5 (Fielder grounded beyond the boundary).
 33.2.2 Furthermore, a catch will be fair if any of the following 
conditions applies:
	 33.2.2.1	 the	ball	is	held	in	the	hand	or	hands	of	a	fielder,	even	
if the hand holding the ball is touching the ground, 
or is hugged to the body, or lodges in the external 
protective	equipment	worn	by	a	fielder,	or	lodges	
accidentally	in	a	fielder’s	clothing.
	 33.2.2.2	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	been	lawfully	
struck more than once by the striker, but only if it has 
not	been	grounded	since	it	was	first	struck.	See	clause	
34 (Hit the ball twice).
	 33.2.2.3	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	touched	the	
wicket,	an	umpire,	another	fielder	or	the	other	batter.
	 33.2.2.4	 a	fielder	catches	the	ball	after	it	has	crossed	the	
boundary in the air, provided that the conditions in 
clause 33.2.1 are met.
 33.2.2.5 the ball is caught off an obstruction within the boundary 
that is not designated a boundary by the umpires.
 33.3 Making a catch
	 	 The	act	of	making	a	catch	shall	start	from	the	time	when	the	ball	first	
comes	into	contact	with	a	fielder’s	person	and	shall	end	when	a	fielder	
obtains complete control over both the ball and her own movement.
 33.4 No runs to be scored
  If the striker is dismissed Caught, runs from that delivery completed by 
the batters before the completion of the catch shall not be scored but 
any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall stand. Clause 18.12 
(Batter returning to the wicket she has left) shall apply from the instant 
of the completion of the catch.
 33.5 Caught to take precedence
  If the criteria of clause 33.1 are met and the striker is not out Bowled, 
then she is out Caught, even though a decision against either batter for 
another	method	of	dismissal	would	be	justified. 31.6 Consultation by umpires
  Each umpire shall answer appeals on matters within his/her own 
jurisdiction. If an umpire is doubtful about any point that the other 
umpire may have been in a better position to see, he/she shall consult 
the latter on this point of fact and shall then give the decision. If, after 
consultation, there is still doubt remaining, the decision shall be Not out.
 31.7 Batter leaving the wicket under a misapprehension
	 	 An	umpire	shall	intervene	if	satisfied	that	a	batter,	not	having	been	
given out, has left the wicket under a misapprehension of being out. The 
umpire intervening shall call and signal Dead ball to prevent any further 
action	by	the	fielding	side	and	shall	recall	the	batter.
  A batter may be recalled at any time up to the instant when the ball comes 
into	play	for	the	next	delivery,	unless	it	is	the	final	wicket	of	the	innings,	in 	
which	case	it	should	be	up	to	the	instant	when	the	umpires	leave	the	field.
 31.8 Withdrawal of an appeal
	 	 The	captain	of	the	fielding	side	may	withdraw	an	appeal	only	after	
obtaining the consent of the umpire within whose jurisdiction the 
appeal falls. If such consent is given, the umpire concerned shall, if 
applicable, revoke the decision and recall the batter.
  The withdrawal of an appeal must be before the instant when the 
ball comes into play for the next delivery or, if the innings has been 
completed,	the	instant	when	the	umpires	leave	the	field.
 32 BOWLED
 32.1 Out Bowled
 32.1.1 The striker is out Bowled if her wicket is put down by a ball 
delivered	by	the	bowler,	not	being	a	No	ball,	even	if	it	first	
touches the striker’s bat or person.
 32.1.2 However, the striker shall not be out Bowled if before striking 
the wicket the ball has been in contact with any other player 
or an umpire. The striker will, however, be subject to clauses 37 
(Obstructing	the	field),	38	(Run	out)	and	39	(Stumped).
 32.2 Bowled to take precedence
  The striker is out Bowled if her wicket is put down as in clause 32.1, even 
though a decision against her for any other method of dismissal would 
be	justified.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.62 9.63 35 HIT WICKET
 35.1 Out Hit wicket
 35.1.1 The striker is out Hit wicket if, after the bowler has entered 
the delivery stride and while the ball is in play, her wicket is 
put down by either the striker’s bat or person as described 
in clauses 29.1.1.2 to 29.1.1.4 (Wicket put down) in any of the 
following circumstances:
 35.1.1.1 in the course of any action taken by her in preparing 
to receive or in receiving a delivery,
	 35.1.1.2	 in	setting	off	for	the	first	run	immediately	after	
playing or playing at the ball,
 35.1.1.3 if no attempt is made to play the ball, in setting off 
for	the	first	run,	providing	that	in	the	opinion	of	the	
umpire this is immediately after the striker has had 
the opportunity of playing the ball,
 35.1.1.4 in lawfully making a second or further stroke for the 
purpose of guarding her wicket within the provisions 
of clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).
 35.1.2 If the striker puts her wicket down in any of the ways described 
in clauses 29.1.1.2 to 29.1.1.4 before the bowler has entered the 
delivery stride, either umpire shall call and signal Dead ball.
 35.2 Not out Hit wicket
  The striker is not out under this clause should her wicket be put down in 
any of the ways referred to in clause 35.1 if any of the following applies:
	 –		it	occurs	after	the	striker	has	completed	any	action	in	receiving	the	
delivery, other than in clauses 35.1.1.2 to 35.1.1.4.
	 –		it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	in	the	act	of	running,	other	than	setting	
off	immediately	for	the	first	run.
	 –		it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	trying	to	avoid	being	run	out	or	stumped.
	 –		it	occurs	when	the	striker	is	trying	to	avoid	a	throw	in	at	any	time.
	 –		the	bowler	after	entering	the	delivery	stride	does	not	deliver	the	ball.	
In this case either umpire shall immediately call and signal Dead ball. 
See clause 20.4 (Umpire calling and signalling Dead ball).
	 –		the	delivery	is	a	No	ball.
 36 LEG BEFORE WICKET
 36.1 Out LBW
  The striker is out LBW if all the circumstances set out in clauses 36.1.1 to 
36.1.5 apply.
 36.1.1 The bowler delivers a ball, not being a No ball
 36.1.2 the ball, if it is not intercepted full-pitch, pitches in line between 
wicket and wicket or on the off side of the striker’s wicket
 36.1.3 the ball not having previously touched her bat, the striker 
intercepts the ball, either full-pitch or after pitching, with any 
part of her person 34 HIT THE BALL TWICE
 34.1 Out Hit the ball twice
 34.1.1 The striker is out Hit the ball twice if, while the ball is in play, it 
strikes any part of her person or is struck by her bat and, before 
the	ball	has	been	touched	by	a	fielder,	the	striker	wilfully	strikes	
it again with her bat or person, other than a hand not holding 
the bat, except for the sole purpose of guarding her wicket.  
See	clause	34.3	and	clause	37	(Obstructing	the	field).
	 34.1.2	 For	the	purpose	of	this	clause	‘struck’	or	‘strike’	shall	include	
contact with the person of the striker.
 34.2 Not out Hit the ball twice
  The striker will not be out under this clause if she
 34.2.1 strikes the ball a second or subsequent time in order to return 
the	ball	to	any	fielder.	
  Note, however, the provisions of clause 37.4 (Returning the ball 
to	a	fielder).
	 34.2.2	 wilfully	strikes	the	ball	after	it	has	touched	a	fielder.	Note,	
however	the	provisions	of	clause	37.1	(Out	Obstructing	the	field).
 34.3 Ball lawfully struck more than once
  The striker may, solely in order to guard her wicket and before the 
ball	has	been	touched	by	a	fielder,	lawfully	strike	the	ball	a	second	or	
subsequent time with the bat, or with any part of her person other than 
a hand not holding the bat. The striker may guard her wicket even if the 
delivery is a No ball.
  However, the striker may not prevent the ball from being caught by 
striking the ball more than once in defence of her wicket. See clause 37.3 
(Obstructing a ball from being caught).
 34.4 Runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once
  When the ball is lawfully struck more than once, as permitted in clause 
34.3, if the ball does not become dead for any reason, the umpire shall 
call and signal Dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at 
the	completion	of	the	first	run.	However,	the	umpire	shall	delay	the	call	
of Dead ball to allow the opportunity for a catch to be completed.
  The umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side
	 –		return	any	not	out	batter	to	her	original	end
	 –		signal	No	ball	to	the	scorers	if	applicable,	and
	 –		award	any	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	Penalty	runs	
under	clause	28.3	(Protective	helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side).
 34.5 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.64 9.65	 37.2	 Not	out	Obstructing	the	field
	 	 A	batter	shall	not	be	out	Obstructing	the	field	if
  obstruction or distraction is accidental, or
  obstruction is in order to avoid injury, or
  in the case of the striker, she makes a second or subsequent strike to 
guard her wicket lawfully as in clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than 
once). However, see clause 37.3.
 37.3 Obstructing a ball from being caught
 37.3.1    If the delivery is not a No ball, the striker is out Obstructing the 
field	if	wilful	obstruction	or	distraction	by	either	batter	prevents	
the striker being out caught.  
 37.3.2   Clause 37.3.1 shall apply even  if an obstruction is caused by the 
striker in lawfully guarding her wicket under the provision of 
Clause 34.3 (Ball lawfully struck more than once).
 37.3.3   If an obstruction or distraction takes place from a No ball then 
the batter who caused the obstruction or distraction will be out 
Obstructing	the	field.	
 37.3.4   Clause 37.3.3 shall not apply if the striker obstructs while 
instinctively defending her wicket with a lawful second strike
	 37.4	 Returning	the	ball	to	a	fielder
	 	 Either	batter	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	at	any	time	while	the	ball	is	
in	play	and,	without	the	consent	of	a	fielder,	she	uses	the	bat	or	any	part	
of	her	person	to	return	the	ball	to	any	fielder.
 37.5 Runs scored
	 	 When	either	batter	is	dismissed	Obstructing	the	field,
 37.5.1 unless the obstruction prevents a catch from being made, any 
runs completed by the batters before the offence shall be 
scored, together with any runs awarded for penalties to either 
side. See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded for penalties) and 18.8 
(Runs scored when a batter is dismissed).
 37.5.2 if the obstruction prevents a catch from being made, any runs 
completed by the batters shall not be scored but any penalties 
awarded to either side shall stand.
 37.6 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket. 36.1.4 the point of impact, even if above the level of the bails,
  either is between wicket and wicket
  or if the striker has made no genuine attempt to play the ball 
with the bat, is
  between wicket and wicket or outside the line of the off stump.
 36.1.5 but for the interception, the ball would have hit the wicket.
 36.2 Interception of the ball
 36.2.1 In assessing points of impact in clauses 36.1.3, 36.1.4 and 36.1.5, 
only	the	first	interception	is	to	be	considered.
 36.2.2 In assessing clause 36.1.3, if the bowler’s end umpire is not 
satisfied	that	the	ball	intercepted	the	batter’s	person	before	it	
touched the bat, the batter shall be given Not out.
 36.2.3 In assessing clause 36.1.5, it is to be assumed that the path 
of the ball before interception would have continued after 
interception, irrespective of whether the ball might have 
pitched subsequently or not.
 36.3 Off side of wicket
  The off side of the striker’s wicket shall be determined by the striker’s 
stance at the moment the ball comes into play for that delivery. See 
paragraph 13 of Appendix A.
 37 OBSTRUCTING THE FIELD
	 37.1	 Out	Obstructing	the	field
	 37.1.1	 Either	batter	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	except	in	the	
circumstances of clause 37.2, and while the ball is in play, she 
wilfully	attempts	to	obstruct	or	distract	the	fielding	side	by	
word or action. See also clause 34 (Hit the ball twice).
	 37.1.2	 The	striker	is	out	Obstructing	the	field	if,	except	in	the	circumstances 	
of clause 37.2, in the act of receiving a ball delivered by the bowler, 
she wilfully strikes the ball with a hand not holding the bat. This will 
apply	whether	it	is	the	first	strike	or	a	second	or	subsequent	strike. 	
The act of receiving the ball shall extend both to playing at the ball 
and to striking the ball more than once in defence of her wicket.
 37.1.3 This clause will apply whether or not No ball is called.
 37.1.4 For the avoidance of doubt, if an umpire feels that a batter, 
in	running	between	the	wickets,	has	significantly	changed	
her direction without probable cause and thereby obstructed 
a	fielder’s	attempt	to	effect	a	run	out,	the	batter	should,	on	
appeal,	be	given	out,	obstructing	the	field.	It	shall	not	be	
relevant whether a run out would have occurred or not.
  If the change of direction involves the batter crossing the pitch, 
clause 41.14 shall also apply.
  See also paragraph 2.2 of Appendix D.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.66 9.67 39 STUMPED
 39.1 Out Stumped
 39.1.1 The striker is out Stumped, except as in clause 39.3, if
  a ball which is delivered is not called No ball
  and she is out of her ground, other than as in clause 39.3.1
  and she has not attempted a run
  when her wicket is fairly put down by the wicket-keeper 
without	the	intervention	of	another	fielder.	Note,	however	
clause 27.3 (Position of wicket-keeper).
 39.1.2 The striker is out Stumped if all the conditions of clause 39.1.1 are 
satisfied,	even	though	a	decision	of	Run	out	would	be	justified.
 39.2 Ball rebounding from wicket-keeper’s person
  If the wicket is put down by the ball, it shall be regarded as having been 
put down by the wicket-keeper if the ball rebounds on to the stumps 
from any part of the wicket-keeper’s person or equipment or has been 
kicked or thrown on to the stumps by the wicket-keeper.
 39.3 Not out Stumped
 39.3.1 The striker will not be out Stumped if, after having received the 
delivery, she has left her ground in order to avoid injury.
 39.3.2 If the striker is not out Stumped she may, except in the 
circumstances of clause 38.2.2.2 (Batter not out run out) be out 
Run out if the conditions of clause 38.1 (Out Run out) apply.
 40 TIMED OUT
 40.1 Out Timed out
 40.1.1 After the fall of a wicket or the retirement of a batter, the 
incoming batter must, unless Time has been called, be in 
position to take guard or for the other batter to be ready to 
receive the next ball within 1 minute 30 seconds of the dismissal 
or retirement. If this requirement is not met, the incoming batter 
will be out, Timed out.
 40.1.2 The incoming batter is expected to be ready to make her way to 
the wicket immediately a wicket falls. Dugouts shall be provided.
 40.1.3 In the event of an extended delay in which no batter comes to 
the wicket, the umpires shall adopt the procedure of clause 16.2 
(ICC Match Referee awarding a match). For the purposes of that 
clause the start of the action shall be taken as the expiry of the  
1 minute 30 seconds referred to above.
 40.2 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket. 38 RUN OUT
 38.1 Out Run out
  Either batter is out Run out, except as in clause 38.2, if, at any time while 
the ball is in play,
  she is out of her ground
	 	 and	her	wicket	is	fairly	put	down	by	the	action	of	a	fielder
  even though No ball has been called, except in the circumstances of 
clause 38.2.2.2, and whether or not a run is being attempted.
 38.2 Batter not out Run out
 38.2.1 A batter is not out Run out in the circumstances of clauses 
38.2.1.1 or 38.2.1.2.
 38.2.1.1 She has been within her ground and has subsequently 
left it to avoid injury, when the wicket is put down.
  Note also the provisions of clause 30.1.2 (When out of 
her ground).
 38.2.1.2 The ball delivered by the bowler has not made 
contact	with	a	fielder,	before	the	wicket	is	put	down.
 38.2.2 The striker is not out Run out in any of the circumstances in 
clauses 38.2.2.1 and 38.2.2.2.
 38.2.2.1 She is out Stumped. See clause 39.1.2 (Out Stumped).
 38.2.2.2 No ball has been called
  and she is out of her ground not attempting a run
  and the wicket is fairly put down by the wicket-
keeper	without	the	intervention	of	another	fielder.
 38.3 Which batter is out
  The batter out in the circumstances of clause 38.1 is the one whose 
ground is at the end where the wicket is put down. See clause 30.2 
(Which is a batter’s ground).
 38.4 Runs scored
  If either batter is dismissed Run out, the run in progress when the wicket 
is put down shall not be scored, but any runs completed by the batters 
shall stand, together with any runs for penalties awarded to either side. 
See clauses 18.6 (Runs awarded for penalties) and 18.8 (Runs scored 
when a batter is dismissed).
 38.5 Bowler does not get credit
  The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.68 9.69 41.3.2.2 remove mud from the ball under the supervision of  
an umpire.
 41.3.2.3 dry a wet ball on a piece of cloth that has been 
approved by the umpires.
 41.3.3 The umpires shall consider the condition of the ball to have 
been unfairly changed if any action by any player does not 
comply with the conditions in clause 41.3.2.
 41.3.4 If the umpires together agree that the condition of the ball has 
been unfairly changed by a member or members of either side, 
or that its condition is inconsistent with the use it has received, 
they shall consider that there has been a contravention of 
this clause and decide together whether they can identify the 
player(s) responsible for such conduct. 
 41.3.5 If it is possible to identify the player(s) responsible for changing 
the condition of the ball, the umpires shall;
 41.3.5.1 Change the ball forthwith. 
 41.3.5.1.1 If the umpires together agree that the 
condition of the ball has been unfairly 
changed by a member or members of 
the	fielding	side,	the	batter	at	the	wicket	
shall choose the replacement ball from 
a selection of six other balls of various 
degrees of usage (including a new ball) and 
of the same brand as the ball in use prior to 
the contravention.
 41.3.5.1.2 If the umpires together agree that the 
condition of the ball has been unfairly 
changed by a member or members of the 
batting side, the umpires shall select and 
bring into use immediately, a ball which shall 
have wear comparable to that of the previous 
ball immediately prior to the contravention.
 41.3.5.2 Additionally, the bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	opposing	side.
	 –		if	appropriate,	inform	the	batters	at	the	wicket	and	
the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	that	the	ball	has	
been changed and the reason for their action.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	batting	side	as	soon	as	
practicable of what has occurred.
  The umpires shall then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the player(s) concerned.
 41.3.6 If it is not possible to identify the player(s) responsible for 
changing the condition of the ball, the umpires shall;
 41.3.6.1 Change the ball forthwith. The umpires shall choose 
the replacement ball for one of similar wear and 
of the same brand as the ball in use prior to the 
contravention. 41 UNFAIR PLAY
 41.1 Fair and unfair play – responsibility of captains
  The captains are responsible for ensuring that play is conducted within 
the Spirit of Cricket, as well as within these Playing Conditions.
 41.2 Fair and unfair play – responsibility of umpires
 41.2.1 The umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play. If 
either umpire considers that any action by a player, not covered 
by these Playing Conditions,  is unfair, he/she shall call and 
signal Dead ball, if appropriate, as soon as it becomes clear 
that the call will not disadvantage the non-offending side, and 
report the matter to the other umpire.  
	 41.2.1.1	 If	this	is	a	first	offence	by	that	side,	the	bowler’s	end	
umpire shall then
 -  summon the offending player’s captain and  
issue	a	first	and	final	warning	which	shall	apply	 
to all members of the team for the remainder of 
the match.
 -  warn the offending player’s captain that any 
further such offence by any member of her team 
shall result in the award of 5 Penalty runs to the 
opposing team.
 41.2.1.2 If this is a second or subsequent offence by that side 
the bowler’s end umpire shall then
 -  summon the offending player’s captain and inform 
her that there has been a further such offence.
 -  award 5 Penalty runs to the opposing side.
 41.2.1.3 The umpires shall may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the player concerned.
 41.3 The match ball – changing its condition
 41.3.1 The umpires shall make frequent and irregular inspections of the 
ball. In addition, they shall immediately inspect the ball if they 
suspect anyone of attempting to change the condition of the 
ball, except as permitted in clause 41.3.2.
 41.3.2 It is an offence for any player to take any action which changes 
the condition of the ball.
   Except in carrying out her normal duties, a batter is not allowed 
to wilfully damage the ball other than, when the ball is in play, in 
striking it with the bat. See also clause 5.5 (Damage to the ball).
	 	 A	fielder	may,	however:
 41.3.2.1 polish the ball on her clothing provided that no 
artificial	substance	is	used	and	that	such	polishing	
wastes no time.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.70 9.71 41.5.6 The bowler’s end umpire shall;
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	reason	for	this	
action and as soon as practicable inform the captain of the 
batting side.
 41.5.7 The ball shall not count as one of the over.
 41.5.8 Any runs completed by the batters before the offence shall be 
scored, together with any runs for penalties awarded to either 
side. Additionally, the run in progress shall be scored whether or 
not the batters had already crossed at the instant of the offence.
 41.5.9 The batters at the wicket shall decide which of them is to face 
the next delivery.
 41.5.10 The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.6 Bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries
 41.6.1 Notwithstanding clause 41.6.2, the bowling of short pitched 
deliveries is dangerous if the bowler’s end umpire considers 
that, taking into consideration the skill of the striker, by their 
speed,	length,	height	and	direction	they	are	likely	to	inflict	
physical injury on her. The fact that the striker is wearing 
protective equipment shall be disregarded.
	 	 In	the	first	instance	the	umpire	decides	that	the	bowling	of	
short pitched deliveries has become dangerous under 41.6.1
 41.6.1.1 The umpire shall call and signal No ball, and when 
the ball is dead, caution the bowler and inform the 
other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	
batters of what has occurred. This caution shall apply 
to that bowler throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.2 If there is a second instance, the umpire shall repeat 
the above procedure and indicate to the bowler that 
this	is	a	final	warning,	which	shall	apply	to	that	bowler	
throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.3 Should there be any further instance by the same 
bowler in that innings, the umpire shall
	 –		call	and	signal	No	ball
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	
fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	immediately	
from bowling
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	for	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to 
bowl again in that innings. 41.3.6.2 The bowler’s end umpire shall issue the captain with a 
first	and	final	warning,	and
 41.3.6.3 Advise the captain that should there be any further 
instances of changing the condition of the ball by that 
team during the remainder of the series, clause 41.3.5.2 
above will be adopted, with the captain deemed to 
be the player responsible for the contravention.
 41.4 Deliberate attempt to distract striker
	 41.4.1	 It	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	deliberately	to	attempt	to	distract	the	
striker while she is preparing to receive or receiving a delivery.
	 41.4.2	 If	either	umpire	considers	that	any	action	by	a	fielder	is	such	an	
attempt, he/she shall immediately call and signal Dead ball and 
inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. The bowler’s 
end umpire shall
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side,	the	batters	and,	as	
soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of the 
reason for the action.
  Neither batter shall be dismissed from that delivery and the ball 
shall not count as one of the over.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against	the	fielder	concerned.
 41.5 Deliberate distraction, deception or obstruction of batter
	 41.5.1	 In	addition	to	clause	41.4,	it	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	wilfully	to	
attempt, by word or action, to distract, deceive or obstruct 
either batter after the striker has received the ball.
 41.5.2 It is for either one of the umpires to decide whether any 
distraction, deception or obstruction is wilful or not.
	 41.5.3	 If	either	umpire	considers	that	a	fielder	has	caused	or	attempted	
to cause such a distraction, deception or obstruction, he/she 
shall immediately call and signal Dead ball and inform the other 
umpire of the reason for the call.
 41.5.4 Neither batter shall be dismissed from that delivery.
 41.5.5 If an obstruction involves physical contact, the umpires 
together shall decide whether or not an offence under clause 42 
(Players’ conduct) has been committed.
 41.5.5.1 If an offence under clause 42 (Players’ conduct) 
has been committed, they shall apply the relevant 
procedures in clause 42 and shall also apply each of 
clauses 41.5.7 to 41.5.9.
 41.5.5.2 If they consider that there has been no offence under 
clause 42 (Players’ conduct), they shall apply each of 
clauses 41.5.6 to 41.5.10.
 ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.72 9.73 41.6.1.11 Should there be any further instance by the same 
bowler in that innings, the umpire shall
	 –		call	and	signal	No	ball
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	
fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	immediately	
from bowling
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	for	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to 
bowl again in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another 
bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part of the 
previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the 
next over.
	 –		The	umpire	shall	report	the	occurrence	to	the	
batters and, as soon as practicable, to the captain 
of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the bowler concerned.
 41.6.2 Should the umpires initiate the caution and warning procedures 
set out in clauses 41.6.1.3 and 41.7 such cautions and warnings are 
not to be cumulative.
 41.7 Bowling of dangerous and unfair non-pitching deliveries
 41.7.1 Any delivery, which passes or would have passed, without 
pitching, above waist height of the striker standing upright at the 
popping crease, is to be deemed to be unfair, whether or not it 
is	likely	to	inflict	physical	injury	on	the	striker.	If	the	bowler	bowls 	
such a delivery the umpire shall immediately call and signal No ball.
  If, in the opinion of the umpire, such a delivery is considered likely 
to	inflict	physical	injury	on	the	batter	by	its	speed	and	direction, 	
it shall be considered dangerous. When the ball is dead the 
umpire	shall	caution	the	bowler,	indicating	that	this	is	a	first	and 	
final	warning.	The	umpire	shall	also	inform	the	other	umpire,	the 	
captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	batters	of	what	has	occurred. 	
This caution shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings.
 41.7.2 Should there be any further instance (where a dangerous 
non-pitching	delivery	is	bowled	and	is	considered	likely	to	inflict	
physical injury on the batter) by the same bowler in that innings, 
the umpire shall
	 –		call	and	signal	No	ball
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	for	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again 
in that innings.
   If applicable, the over shall be completed by another 
bowler, who shall neither have bowled any part of the 
previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any part of the 
next over.
 -  The umpire shall report the occurrence to the 
batters and, as soon as practicable, to the captain 
of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the 
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is 
considered appropriate against the bowler concerned.
 41.6.1.4 A bowler shall be limited to one fast short-pitched 
deliveries per over.
	 41.6.1.5	 A	fast	short-pitched	delivery	is	defined	as	a	ball,	which 	
passes or would have passed above the shoulder height 
of the striker standing upright at the popping crease.
 41.6.1.6 The umpire at the bowler’s end shall advise the 
bowler and the batter on strike when each fast short 
pitched delivery has been bowled.
 41.6.1.7 In addition, a ball that passes above head height of 
the batter, standing upright at the popping crease, 
that prevents her from being able to hit it with her 
bat by means of a normal cricket stroke shall be called 
a Wide. See also clause 22.1.1.2
 41.6.1.7.1 For the avoidance of doubt any fast short 
pitched delivery that is called a Wide under 
this playing condition shall also count 
as one of the allowable short pitched 
deliveries in that over.
 41.6.1.8 In the event of a bowler bowling more than one fast 
short-pitched	deliveries	in	an	over	as	defined	in	clause	
41.6.1.5 above, the umpire at the bowler’s end shall 
call and signal No ball on each occasion. A differential 
signal shall be used to signify a fast short pitched 
delivery.	The	umpire	shall	call	and	signal	‘No	ball’	and	
then tap the head with the other hand.
 41.6.1.9 If a bowler delivers a second fast short pitched ball 
in an over, the umpire, after the call of No ball and 
when the ball is dead, shall caution the bowler, inform 
the	other	umpire,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	
the batters at the wicket of what has occurred. This 
caution shall apply throughout the innings.
 41.6.1.10 If there is a second instance of the bowler being No 
balled in the innings for bowling more than one fast short 
pitched deliveries in an over, the umpire shall advise the 
bowler	that	this	is	her	final	warning	for	the	innings.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.74 9.75	 41.9	 Time	wasting	by	the	fielding	side
	 41.9.1	 It	is	unfair	for	any	fielder	to	waste	time.
 41.9.2 If either umpire considers that the progress of an over is 
unnecessarily slow, or time is being wasted in any other way, 
by	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	or	by	any	other	fielder,	at	the	
first	instance	the	umpire	concerned	shall
	 –		if	the	ball	is	in	play,	call	and	signal	Dead	ball.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	what	has	occurred.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		warn	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side,	indicating	that	this	is	a	
first	and	final	warning.
	 –		inform	the	batters	of	what	has	occurred.
 41.9.3 If either umpire considers that there is any further waste of time 
in	that	innings	by	any	fielder,	the	umpire	concerned	shall
	 –		if	the	ball	is	in	play,	call	and	signal	Dead	ball.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	what	has	occurred.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then award 5 Penalty runs to the 
batting	side	and	inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	of	the	
reason for this action.
  Additionally the umpire shall inform the batters and, as soon as is 
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
  If the umpires believe that the act of time wasting was 
deliberate or repetitive, they may lodge a report under the 
Code of Conduct. In such circumstances the Captain and/or any 
individual	members	of	the	fielding	team	responsible	for	the	time	
wasting will be charged.
 41.10 Batter wasting time
 41.10.1 It is unfair for a batter to waste time. In normal circumstances, 
the striker should always be ready to take strike when the 
bowler is ready to start her run-up.
  In addition, an incoming batter should be in position to take 
guard or her partner ready to receive the next ball within  
2 minutes of the fall of the previous wicket.
 41.10.2 Should either batter waste time by failing to meet this requirement, 
or in any other way, the following procedure shall be adopted. At the 
first	instance,	either	before	the	bowler	starts	her	run-up	or	when	the 	
ball becomes dead, as appropriate, the umpire shall
 –		warn	both	batters	and	indicate	that	this	is	a	first	and	final	
warning. This warning shall apply throughout the innings.  
The umpire shall so inform each incoming batter.
 – inform the other umpire of what has occurred.
 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, 
who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over, 
nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.
  Additionally the umpire shall
	 –		report	the	occurrence	to	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, to the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the bowler concerned.
 41.7.3 The warning sequence in clauses 41.7.1 and 41.7.2 is independent 
of the warning and action sequence in clause 41.6.
 41.7.4 If the umpire considers that a bowler deliberately bowled a high 
full-pitched delivery, deemed to be dangerous and unfair as 
defined	in	clause	41.7.1,	then	the	caution	and	warning	in	clause	
41.7.1 shall be dispensed with. The umpire shall
	 –		immediately	call	and	signal	No	ball.
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	
to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling and inform 
the other umpire for the reason for this action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again 
in that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, 
who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over, 
nor be allowed to bowl any part of the next over.
	 –		report	the	occurrence	to	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, to the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the bowler concerned.
 41.8 Bowling of deliberate front-foot No ball
  If the umpire considers that the bowler has delivered a deliberate 
front-foot No ball, he/she shall
	 –		immediately	call	and	signal	No	ball.
	 –		when	the	ball	is	dead,	direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	
suspend the bowler immediately from bowling.
	 –	 inform	the	other	umpire	for	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in  
that innings.
  If applicable, the over shall be completed by another bowler, who shall 
neither have bowled any part of the previous over, nor be allowed to 
bowl any part of the next over.
	 –		report	the	occurrence	to	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	to	
the captain of the batting side.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against 
the bowler concerned.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.76 9.77 41.13 Bowler running on protected area
 41.13.1 It is unfair for a bowler to enter the protected area in her  
follow-through without reasonable cause, whether or not  
the ball is delivered.
	 41.13.2	 If	a	bowler	contravenes	this	clause,	at	the	first	instance	and	
when the ball is dead, the umpire shall
	 –		caution	the	bowler	and	inform	the	other	umpire	of	what	has	
occurred. This caution shall apply to that bowler throughout 
the innings.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	the	batters	of	what	
has occurred.
 41.13.3 If, in that innings, the same bowler again contravenes this 
clause, the umpire shall repeat the above procedure indicating 
that	this	is	a	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	also	apply	
throughout the innings.
 41.13.4 If, in that innings, the same bowler contravenes this clause a 
third time, when the ball is dead, the umpire shall,
	 –		direct	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	to	suspend	the	bowler	
immediately from bowling. If applicable, the over shall be 
completed by another bowler, who shall neither have bowled 
any part of the previous over, nor be allowed to bowl any 
part of the next over. The bowler taken off shall not be 
allowed to bowl again in that innings.
	 –		inform	the	other	umpire	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
	 –		inform	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	the	captain	of	
the batting side of what has occurred.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the bowler concerned.
 41.14 Batter damaging the pitch
 41.14.1 It is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch. 
If the striker enters the protected area in playing or playing at the 
ball, she must move from it immediately thereafter. A batter will be 
deemed to be causing avoidable damage if either umpire considers 
that her presence on the pitch is without reasonable cause.
 41.14.2 If either batter causes deliberate or avoidable damage to the 
pitch,	other	than	as	in	clause	41.15,	at	the	first	instance	the	
umpire seeing the contravention shall, when the ball is dead, 
inform the other umpire of the occurrence. The bowler’s end 
umpire shall then
	 –		warn	both	batters	that	the	practice	is	unfair	and	indicate	
that	this	is	a	first	and	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	apply	
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform each 
incoming batter.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. 41.10.3 If there is any further time wasting by any batter in that innings, 
the umpire shall, at the appropriate time while the ball is dead
 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
 –  inform the other umpire of the reason for this action.
 –		inform	the	other	batter,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	
as soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side of what 
has occurred.
  If the umpires believe that the act of time wasting was deemed 
to be deliberate or repetitive, they may lodge a report under the 
Code of Conduct. In such circumstances the batter concerned will 
be charged.
 41.11 The protected area
	 	 The	protected	area	is	defined	as	that	area	of	the	pitch	contained	within	
a rectangle bounded at each end by imaginary lines parallel to the 
popping creases and 5 ft/1.52 m in front of each, and on the sides by 
imaginary lines, one each side of the imaginary line joining the centres 
of the two middle stumps, each parallel to it and 1 ft/30.48 cm from it.
 41.12 Fielder damaging the pitch
 41.12.1 It is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the 
pitch.	A	fielder	will	be	deemed	to	be	causing	avoidable	damage	
if either umpire considers that her presence on the pitch is 
without reasonable cause.
	 41.12.2	 If	a	fielder	causes	avoidable	damage	to	the	pitch,	other	than	
as	in	clause	41.13.1,	at	the	first	instance	the	umpire	seeing	the	
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire. The bowler’s end umpire shall then
 –		caution	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and	indicate	that	this	
is	a	first	and	final	warning.	 This	warning	shall	apply	throughout	
the innings.
 –  inform the batters of what has occurred.
 41.12.3 If, in that innings, there is any further instance of avoidable 
damage	to	the	pitch,	by	any	fielder,	the	umpire	seeing	the	
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire. The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	batting	side.
  Additionally the umpire shall
	 –		inform	the	fielding	captain	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
	 –		inform	the	batters	and,	as	soon	as	practicable,	the	captain	of	
the batting side of what has occurred.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate	against	the	fielder	concerned.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.78 9.79  The bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		return	any	not	out	batter	to	her	original	end.
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	to	the	scorers	if	applicable.
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
	 –		award	any	other	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side).
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the ICC 
Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the batter concerned.
 41.16 Non-striker leaving her ground early
  If the non-striker is out of her ground from the moment the ball comes 
into play to the instant when the bowler would normally have been 
expected to release the ball, the bowler is permitted to attempt to 
run her out. Whether the attempt is successful or not, the ball shall not 
count as one in the over.
  If the bowler fails in an attempt to run out the non-striker, the umpire 
shall call and signal Dead ball as soon as possible.
 41.17 Batters stealing a run
 41.17.1 It is unfair for the batters to attempt to steal a run during the 
bowler’s run-up.
	 	 Unless	the	bowler	attempts	to	run	out	either	batter	–	see	
clauses 41.16 and 21.4 (Bowler throwing towards striker’s end 
before	delivery)	–	the	umpire	shall
	 –		call	and	signal	Dead	ball	as	soon	as	the	batters	cross	in	such	
an attempt.
	 –	inform	the	other	umpire	of	the	reason	for	this	action.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		return	the	batters	to	their	original	ends.
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
	 –		inform	the	batters,	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	
soon as practicable, the captain of the batting side, of the 
reason for this action.
  The umpires may then report the matter to the ICC Match 
Referee who shall take such action as is considered appropriate 
against the batter concerned. 41.14.3 If there is any further instance of avoidable damage to the 
pitch by any batter in that innings, the umpire seeing the 
contravention shall, when the ball is dead, inform the other 
umpire of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall
	 –		disallow	all	runs	to	the	batting	side.
	 –		return	any	not	out	batter	to	her	original	end.
	 –		signal	No	ball	or	Wide	to	the	scorers	if	applicable.
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	fielding	side.
	 –		award	any	other	5-run	Penalty	that	is	applicable	except	for	
Penalty runs under clause 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging 
to	the	fielding	side).
	 –		Inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of the reason for 
this action.
  The umpires together shall report the occurrence to the  
ICC Match Referee who shall take such action as is considered 
appropriate against the batter concerned.
 41.15 Striker in protected area
 41.15.1 The striker shall not adopt a stance in the protected area or so 
close to it that frequent encroachment is inevitable.
  The striker may mark a guard on the pitch provided that no 
mark is unreasonably close to the protected area.
 41.15.2 If either umpire considers that the striker is in breach of any of 
the conditions in clause 41.15.1, if the bowler has not entered 
the delivery stride, he/she shall immediately call Dead ball, 
otherwise, wait until the ball is dead; he/she shall then inform 
the other umpire of the occurrence.
  The bowler’s end umpire shall then
	 –		warn	the	striker	that	the	practice	is	unfair	and	indicate	
that	this	is	a	first	and	final	warning.	This	warning	shall	apply	
throughout the innings. The umpire shall so inform the 
non-striker and each incoming batter.
	 –		inform	the	captain	of	the	fielding	side	and,	as	soon	as 	
practicable, the captain of the batting side of what has occurred.
 41.15.3 If there is any further breach of any of the conditions in clause 
41.15.1 by any batter in that innings, the umpire seeing the 
contravention shall, if the bowler has not entered her delivery 
stride, immediately call and signal Dead ball, otherwise, he/she 
shall wait until the ball is dead and then inform the other umpire 
of the occurrence.
 ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.80 9.81 42.1.4 If the offence is committed by a batter, the umpires shall 
summon	the	offending	player’s	captain	to	the	field.	Solely	for	
the purpose of this clause, the batters at the wicket may not 
deputise for their captain.
 42.2 Level 4 offences and action by umpires
 42.2.1 Any of the following actions by a player shall constitute a Level 
4 offence:
	 –		threatening	to	assault	an	umpire
	 –		making	inappropriate	and	deliberate	physical	contact	with	 
an umpire
	 –		physically	assaulting	a	player	or	any	other	person
	 –		committing	any	other	act	of	violence.
 42.2.2 If such an offence is committed, 42.2.2.1 to 42.2.2.5 shall  
be implemented.
 42.2.2.1 The umpire shall call Time.
 42.2.2.2 Together the umpires shall summon and inform the 
offending player’s captain that an offence at this 
Level has occurred.
 42.2.2.3 The umpires shall instruct the captain to remove  
the	offending	player	immediately	from	the	field	of	
play for the remainder of the match and shall apply 
the following:
	 42.2.2.3.1	 If	the	offending	player	is	a	fielder,	no	
substitute shall be allowed for her. She 
is	to	be	recorded	as	Retired	–	out	at	the	
commencement of any subsequent innings 
in which her team is the batting side.
 42.2.2.3.2 If a bowler is suspended mid-over, then 
that over must be completed by a different 
bowler, who shall not have bowled the 
previous over nor shall be permitted to 
bowl the next over.
 42.2.2.3.3 If the offending player is a batter she is to 
be	recorded	as	Retired	–	out	in	the	current	
innings, unless she has been dismissed 
under any of clauses 32 to 39, and at the 
commencement of any subsequent innings 
in which her team is the batting side. If 
no further batter is available to bat, the 
innings is completed.
 42.2.2.4 As soon as practicable, the umpire shall:
	 –		award	5	Penalty	runs	to	the	opposing	team
	 –		signal	the	Level	4	penalty	to	the	scorers
	 –		call	Play.
 42.2.2.5 The umpires shall then report the matter to the ICC 
Match Referee under the ICC Code of Conduct. 41.18 Penalty runs
 41.18.1 When Penalty runs are awarded to either side, when the ball is 
dead the umpire shall signal the Penalty runs to the scorers. See 
clause 2.13 (Signals).
 41.18.2 Penalty runs shall be awarded in each case where these Playing 
Conditions require the award, even if a result has already been 
achieved. See clause 16.6 (Winning hit or extras).
  Note, however, that the restrictions on awarding Penalty runs, 
in clauses 23.3 (Leg byes not to be awarded), 34.4 (Runs scored 
from ball lawfully struck more than once) and 28.3 (Protective 
helmets	belonging	to	the	fielding	side),	will	apply.
 41.18.3 When 5 Penalty runs are awarded to the batting side under 
any of clauses 24.4 (Player returning without permission), 28.2 
(Fielding the ball), 28.3 (Protective helmets belonging to the 
fielding	side)	or	under	41.3,	41.4,	41.5,	41.9	or	41.12,	then
	 –		they	shall	be	scored	as	Penalty	extras	and	shall	be	in	addition	
to any other penalties.
	 –		they	are	awarded	when	the	ball	is	dead	and	shall	not	
be regarded as runs scored from either the immediately 
preceding delivery or the immediately following delivery, and 
shall be in addition to any runs from those deliveries.
	 –		the	batters	shall	not	change	ends	solely	by	reason	of	the	5	
run penalty.
	 41.18.4	 When	5	Penalty	runs	are	awarded	to	the	fielding	side,	under	
clause 18.5.2 (Deliberate short runs), or under 41.10, 41.14, 41.15 or 
41.17, they shall be added as Penalty extras to that side’s total of 
runs	in	its	most	recently	completed	innings.	If	the	fielding	side	
has not completed an innings, the 5 Penalty runs shall be added 
to the score in its next innings.
 42 PLAYERS’ CONDUCT
 42.1 Serious misconduct
 42.1.1 The umpires shall act upon any serious misconduct. The relevant 
offences and the corresponding actions by the umpires are 
identified	in	clause	42.2.1.	These	offences	correspond	with	
Level 4 offences in the ICC Code of Conduct. Level 1 to Level 
3 offences continue to be dealt with separately under the ICC 
Code of Conduct.
 42.1.2 If either umpire considers that a player has committed one 
of these offences at any time during the match, the umpire 
concerned shall call and signal Dead ball. This call may be 
delayed	until	the	umpire	is	satisfied	that	it	will	not	disadvantage	
the non-offending side.
 42.1.3 The umpire concerned shall report the matter to the other umpire 
and together they shall decide whether an offence has been 
committed. The umpires may also consult with the third umpire 
and the match referee, who may review any audio or video 
replays	to	confirm	whether	an	offence	has	been	committed.	If	so, 	
the umpires shall then apply the related sanctions.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.82 9.83APPENDICES TO ICC WOMEN’S 
TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
MATCH PLAYING CONDITIONS
(INCORPORATING THE 2017 CODE OF THE MCC LAWS OF CRICKET)
A.	 Definitions
B. Equipment
 1. The bat
 2. The wickets
 3. Wicket-keeping gloves
C. The venue
 1. The pitch and the creases
 2. Advertising on grounds, perimeter boards and sight-screens
 3.	 Markings	on	outfield
D. Decision Review System (DRS) and Third Umpire Protocol
E. Calculations
F.  The Super Over	 42.3	 Captain	refusing	to	remove	a	player	from	the	field
 42.3.1 If a captain refuses to carry out an instruction under 42.2.2.3,  
the umpires shall invoke clause 16.2 (ICC Match Referee 
awarding a match).
 42.3.2 If both captains refuse to carry out instructions under 42.2.2.3 
in respect of the same incident, the umpires shall instruct the 
players	to	leave	the	field.	The	match	is	not	concluded	as	in	
clause 12.6 and there shall be no result under clause 16.
 42.4 Additional points relating to Level 4 offences
 42.4.1 If a player, while acting as wicket-keeper, commits a Level 
4 offence, clause 24.1.2 shall not apply, meaning that only a 
nominated	player	may	keep	wicket,	even	if	another	fielder	
becomes injured or ill and is replaced by a substitute.
 42.4.2 A nominated player who has a substitute will also suffer the 
penalty for any Level 4 offence committed by the substitute. 
However, only the substitute will be reported under clause 42.2.2.5.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.84 9.85	 	 For	a	fielder,	only	a	protective	helmet	is	permitted,	except	in	the	case	of	
a wicket-keeper, for whom wicket-keeping pads and gloves are  
also permitted.
 2.3 A protective helmet is headwear made of hard material and designed 
to protect the head or the face or both, which shall (in line with the 
Clothing	and	Equipment	Regulations)	be	certified	to	BS7928:2013.	
For the purposes of interpreting these Playing Conditions, such a 
description will include faceguards.
 2.4 Equipment	–	a	batter’s	equipment	is	her	bat	as	defined	above,	together	
with any external protective equipment she is wearing.
	 	 A	fielder’s	equipment	is	any	external	protective	equipment	that	she	  
is wearing.
 2.5 The bat	–	the	following	are	to	be	considered	as	part	of	the	bat:
	 –	 the	whole	of	the	bat	itself.
	 –	 the	whole	of	a	glove	(or	gloves)	worn	on	the	hand	(or	hands)	holding	
the bat.
	 –	 the	hand	(or	hands)	holding	the	bat,	if	the	batter	is	not	wearing	a	
glove on that hand or on those hands.
 2.6 Held in batter’s hand. Contact between a batter’s hand, or glove worn 
on her hand, and any part of the bat shall constitute the bat being held 
in that hand.
 3 THE PLAYING AREA
 3.1 The	field	of	play is the area contained within the boundary.
 3.2 The square	is	a	specially	prepared	area	of	the	field	of	play	within	which	
the match pitch is situated.
 3.3 The	outfield	is	that	part	of	the	field	of	play	between	the	square	and	  
the boundary.
 4 POSITIONING
 4.1 Behind the popping crease at one end of the pitch	is	that	area	of	the	field 	
of play, including any other marking, objects and persons therein, that is 
on that side of the popping crease that does not include the creases at the 
opposite end of the pitch. Behind, in relation to any other marking, object or 
person, follows the same principle. See the diagram in paragraph 13. 
 4.2 In front of the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area of the 
field	of	play,	including	any	other	marking,	objects	and	persons	therein,	that	is 	
on that side of the popping crease that includes the creases at the opposite 
end of the pitch. In front of, in relation to any other marking, object or person, 
follows the same principle. See the diagram in paragraph 13.
 4.3 The striker’s end is the place where the striker stands to receive a 
delivery	from	the	bowler	only	insofar	as	it	identifies,	independently	of	
where the striker may subsequently move, one end of the pitch. 
 4.4 The bowler’s end is the end from which the bowler delivers the ball. It is 
the	other	end	of	the	pitch	from	the	striker’s	end	and	identifies	that	end	
of the pitch that is not the striker’s end as described in paragraph 4.3. 
 4.5 The wicket-keeper’s end is the same as the striker’s end as described in 
paragraph 4.3.APPENDIX A
DEFINITIONS
 1 THE MATCH
 1.1 The game is used in these Playing Conditions as a general term meaning 
the Game of Cricket. 
 1.2 A Green status Member for the purpose of these playing conditions is 
an ICC Member whose women’s team does not have ODI status. Refer to 
the changes to the playing conditions for T20I matches played between 
Green status Members on page 1 of these playing conditions.
 1.3 A match is a single Twenty20 International between two teams, played 
under these Playing Conditions.
 1.4 T20I is an abbreviation for Twenty20 International.
 1.5 A Super Over is a procedure that may be adopted for determining the 
result of a tied match, as set out in Appendix F.
 1.6 The toss is the toss for choice of innings.
 1.7 Before the toss is at any time before the toss on the day the match is 
expected to start.
 1.8 Before the match is at any time before the toss, not restricted to the 
day of the match.
 1.9 During the match is at any time after the toss until the conclusion of 
the match, whether play is in progress or not.
 1.10 Playing time is any time between the call of Play and the call of Time. 
See clauses 12.1 (Call of Play) and 12.2 (Call of Time). 
 1.11 Conduct of the match includes any action relevant to the match at any time.
 1.12 Ground Authority is the entity responsible for the selection and 
preparation of the pitch and other functions relating to the hosting and 
management of the match, including any agents acting on their behalf 
(including but not limited to the curator or other ground staff).
 1.13 Home Board is the ICC member responsible for the home team and the 
hosting of the match.
 1.14 Visiting Board is the ICC member responsible for the visiting team.
 1.15 The Spirit of Cricket refers to the values of respect and fair play that 
underpin the game of cricket, as set out in the Preamble to these 
Playing Conditions.
 1.16 The ICC Code of Conduct is the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and 
Player Support Personnel, as amended from time to time.
 2 IMPLEMENTS AND EQUIPMENT
 2.1 Implements used in the match are the bat, the ball, the stumps and bails.
 2.2 External protective equipment is any visible item of apparel worn for 
protection against external blows.
  For a batter, items permitted are a protective helmet, external leg 
guards (batting pads), batting gloves and, if visible, forearm guards.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.86 9.87 5.11 Umpire’s Call	is	the	concept	within	the	DRS	under	which	the	on-field	
decision of the bowler’s end umpire shall stand, which shall apply 
under	the	specific	circumstances	set	out	in	paragraphs	3.4.5	and	3.4.6	of	
Appendix D, where the ball-tracking technology indicates a marginal 
decision in respect of either the Impact Zone or the Wicket Zone.
 5.12 The Pitching Zone as used in the DRS is a two dimensional area on the 
pitch between both sets of stumps with its boundaries consisting of the 
base of both sets of stumps and a line between the outside of the outer 
stumps at each end.
 5.13 The Impact Zone as used in the DRS is a three dimensional space 
extending	between	both	sets	of	stumps	to	an	indefinite	height	vertically	
and with its boundaries consisting of the base of the stumps and the 
outside of the outer stumps at each end.
 5.14 The Wicket Zone as used in the DRS is a two dimensional area with its 
boundaries consisting of the outside of the outer stumps, the base of 
the stumps, and the lower edge of the bails.
 5.15 A Fair Catch	is	a	catch	that	has	been	taken	cleanly	by	the	fielder	in	
accordance with clause 33.
 5.16 A Bump Ball is where the ball has made contact with the ground shortly 
after making contact with the striker’s bat.
 5.17 The Elite Panel is	the	group	of	umpires	contracted	to	the	ICC	to	officiate	
in international cricket. 
 5.18 The International Panel is the group of umpires nominated by the ICC’s 
full members in accordance with clause 2.1.3 of the Playing Conditions.
 5.19 The First-Class Panel is the group of umpires nominated by the ICC’s full 
members in accordance with clause 2.1.3 of the Playing Conditions.
 5.20 The ICC Development Panel is the group of umpires nominated by the 
ICC’s full and associate members in accordance with clause 2.1.3 of the 
Playing Conditions.
 5.21 The International Panel of Referees is the group of referees nominated by the 
ICC’s full members in accordance with clause 2.1.6 of the Playing Conditions.
 6 BATTERS
 6.1 Batting side is the side currently batting, whether or not play is in progress.
 6.2 Member of the batting side is one of the players nominated by the 
captain of the batting side, or any authorised replacement for such 
nominated player.
 6.3 A batter’s ground	–	at	each	end	of	the	pitch,	the	whole	area	of	the	field	
of play behind the popping crease is the ground at that end for a batter.
 6.4 Original end is the end where a batter was when the ball came into play 
for that delivery.
 6.5 Wicket she has left is the wicket at the end where a batter was at the 
start of the run in progress.
 6.6 Guard position is the position and posture adopted by the striker to 
receive a ball delivered by the bowler.
 6.7	 For	the	purposes	of	these	Playing	Conditions,	waist	height	is	defined	as	
the point at which the top of the batter’s trousers would conventionally 
be when she is standing upright at the popping crease. 4.6 In front of the line of the striker’s wicket	is	in	the	area	of	the	field	of	
play in front of the imaginary line joining the fronts of the stumps at the 
striker’s end; this line to be considered extended in both directions to 
the boundary. See paragraph 4.2.
 4.7 Behind the wicket is	in	the	area	of	the	field	of	play	behind	the	imaginary 	
line joining the backs of the stumps at the appropriate end; this line to be 
considered extended in both directions to the boundary. See paragraph 4.1.
 4.8 Behind the wicket-keeper is behind the wicket at the striker’s end, as 
defined	above,	but	in	line	with	both	sets	of	stumps	and	further	from	the	
stumps than the wicket-keeper.
 4.9 Off side/on (leg) side –	see	diagram	in	paragraph	13.
 4.10 Inside edge is the edge on the same side as the nearer wicket. 
 5 UMPIRES AND DECISION-MAKING
 5.1 Umpire	–	where	the	description	the umpire is used on its own, it 
always	means	‘the	bowler’s	end	umpire’	though	this	full	description	is	
sometimes used for emphasis or clarity. Similarly the umpires always 
means both umpires and the third umpire. An umpire and umpires are 
generalised terms. Otherwise, a fuller description indicates which one 
of	the	umpires	is	specifically	intended.	Each	umpire	will	be	bowler’s	end	
umpire and striker’s end umpire in alternate overs. 
 5.2 Bowler’s end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the bowler’s end 
(see paragraph 4.4) for the current delivery.
 5.3 Striker’s end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the striker’s end 
(see paragraph 4.3), to one side of the pitch or the other, depending on 
his/her choice, for the current delivery. 
 5.4 On-field	umpires	shall mean, collectively, the bowler’s end umpire and 
the striker’s end umpire.
 5.5 Third umpire is the umpire who may use television evidence and other 
available	technology	in	order	review	a	decision	of	the	on-field	umpires,	
either by way of an Umpire Review or a Player Review under the 
protocol set out in Appendix D.
 5.6 Umpires together agree applies to decisions which the umpires are to 
make jointly, independently of the players.
 5.7 Decision Review System or DRS is the process covered by the Decision 
Review System and Third Umpire Protocol set out in Appendix D, under 
which the third umpire may be consulted in relation to a decision of the 
on-field	umpires,	either	by	way	of	an	Umpire	Review	or	a	Player	Review.
 5.8 Player Review is the process set out in Appendix D by which a player may 
request	a	review	of	any	decision	taken	by	the	on-field	umpires	concerning 	
whether	or	not	a	batter	is	dismissed	(with	the	exception	of	‘Timed	out’).
 5.9 Umpire Review is the process set out in Appendix D by which an 
on-field	umpire	has	the	discretion	to	refer	a	decision	to	the	third	umpire	
or, under certain circumstances, to consult with the third umpire before 
making a decision.
 5.10 Soft Signal is the visual communication by the bowler’s end umpire to 
the third umpire (accompanied by additional information via two-way 
radio	where	necessary)	of	his/her	initial	on-field	decision	prior	to	
initiating an Umpire Review.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.88 9.89is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for the 
purposes of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).
 9.6 Elbow Extension means the motion that occurs when a bowler’s arm 
moves	from	a	flexed	(bent)	position	at	the	elbow,	to	a	more	extended	
(straight) position (full Elbow Extension occurs when the arm is straight).
 9.7 Elbow Hyperextension is the motion that occurs when a bowler’s 
elbow extends beyond the straight position.
 9.8 The ICC Bowling Action Report Form is the form provided for by Article 
3 of the Illegal Bowling Regulations, by which an umpire and/or the 
ICC Match Referee may submit a report relating to a suspected Illegal 
Bowling Action.
 10 THE BALL
 10.1 The ball	is	struck/strikes	the	ball	unless	specifically	defined	otherwise,	
mean	‘the	ball	is	struck	by	the	bat’/‘strikes	the	ball	with	the	bat’.
 10.2 Rebounds directly/strikes directly and similar phrases	mean	‘without	
contact	with	any	fielder’	but	do	not	exclude	contact	with	the	ground.
 10.3 Full-pitch describes a ball delivered by the bowler that reaches or 
passes the striker without having touched the ground. Sometimes 
described as non-pitching.
 11 RUNS
 11.1 A run to be disallowed is one that in these Playing Conditions should 
not have been taken. It is not only to be cancelled but the batters are to 
be returned to their original ends. 
 11.2 A run not to be scored is one that is not illegal, but is not recognised 
as a properly executed run. It is not a run that has been made, so the 
question of cancellation does not arise. The loss of the run so attempted 
is not a disallowance and the batters will not be returned to their 
original ends on that account. 
 12 THE PERSON
 12.1 Person;	A	player’s	person	is	her	physical	person	(flesh	and	blood)	
together with any clothing or legitimate external protective equipment 
that she is wearing except, in the case of a batter, her bat.
  A hand, whether gloved or not, that is not holding the bat is part of the 
batter’s person.
  No item of clothing or equipment is part of the player’s person unless it 
is attached to her.
  For a batter, a glove being held but not worn is part of her person.
	 	 For	a	fielder,	an	item	of	clothing	or	equipment	she	is	holding	in	her	hand	
or hands is not part of her person.
 12.2 Clothing	–	anything	that	a	player	is	wearing,	including	such	items	
as spectacles or jewellery, that is not classed as external protective 
equipment is classed as clothing, even though she may be wearing 
some items of apparel, which are not visible, for protection. A bat being 
carried	by	a	batter	does	not	come	within	this	definition	of	clothing.
 12.3 Hand for batter or wicket-keeper shall include both the hand itself and 
the whole of a glove worn on the hand. 7 FIELDERS
 7.1 Fielding side	is	the	side	currently	fielding,	whether	or	not	play	is	in	progress.
 7.2 Member	of	the	fielding	side is one of the players nominated by the 
captain	of	the	fielding	side,	or	any	authorised	replacement	or	substitute	
for such nominated player. 
 7.3 Fielder	is	one	of	the	11	or	fewer	players	who	together	represent	the	fielding 	
side	on	the	field	of	play.	This	definition	includes	not	only	both	the	bowler 	
and the wicket-keeper but also nominated players who are legitimately on 
the	field	of	play,	together	with	players	legitimately	acting	as	substitutes	for 	
absent nominated players. It excludes any nominated player who is absent 
from	the	field	of	play,	or	who	has	been	absent	from	the	field	of	play	and 	
who has not yet obtained the umpire’s permission to return. 
	 	 A	player	going	briefly	outside	the	boundary	in	the	course	of	discharging	
her	duties	as	a	fielder	is	not	absent	from	the	field	of	play	nor,	for	the	
purposes	of	clause	24.2	(Fielder	absent	or	leaving	the	field	of	play),	is	she	
to	be	regarded	as	having	left	the	field	of	play.
 8 SUBSTITUTES AND CONCUSSION REPLACEMENTS
 8.1 A Substitute	is	a	player	who	takes	the	place	of	a	fielder	on	the	field	of	play, 	
but does not replace the player for whom she substitutes on that side’s list 
of	nominated	players.		A	substitute’s	activities	are	limited	to	fielding.
 8.2 A Concussion Replacement is a player who takes the place of a player 
who has been replaced in accordance with the process set out in clause 
1.2.7, and who for the remainder of the match replaces that player on that 
side’s list of nominated players, being able to take a full part in the match 
(subject to such restrictions as may be imposed by the ICC Match Referee in 
accordance with clause 1.2.8
 8.3 A Concussion Replacement Request is	the	notification	made	to	the	ICC 	
Match Referee in accordance with the process set out in clause 1.2.7.3
 8.4 The Team Medical Representative is the individual designated as having 
responsibility for the assessment of any head or neck injury sustained by a 
player as set out in clause 1.2.7.2.
 9 BOWLERS
 9.1 Over the wicket/round the wicket	–	If,	as	the	bowler	runs	up	between	
the wicket and the return crease, the wicket is on the same side as her 
bowling arm, she is bowling over the wicket. If the return crease is on 
the same side as her bowling arm, she is bowling round the wicket.
 9.2 Delivery swing is the motion of the bowler’s arm during which she 
normally releases the ball for a delivery.
 9.3 Delivery stride is the stride during which the delivery swing is made, 
whether the ball is released or not. It starts when the bowler’s back foot 
lands for that stride and ends when the front foot lands in the same 
stride. The stride after the delivery stride is completed when the next 
foot lands, i.e. when the back foot of the delivery stride lands again.
 9.4 The Illegal Bowling Regulations are the ICC’s regulations governing 
Illegal Bowling Actions.
 9.5 An Illegal Bowling Action is a bowling action where a bowler’s Elbow 
Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured from the point at which the 
bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the point at which the ball ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.90 9.91APPENDIX B
EQUIPMENT
 1 THE BAT
 1.1 General guidance
	 1.1.1	 Measurements	–	All	provisions	in	paragraphs	1.2	to	1.6	below	
are subject to the measurements and restrictions stated in the 
Playing Conditions and this Appendix.
	 1.1.2	 Adhesives	–	Throughout,	adhesives	are	permitted	only	where	
essential and only in minimal quantity.
	 1.2	 Specifications	for	the	Handle
 1.2.1 One end of the handle is inserted into a recess in the blade as a 
means of joining the handle and the blade.
  This lower portion is used purely for joining the blade and 
the handle together. It is not part of the blade but, solely in 
interpreting paragraphs 1.3 and 1.4 below, references to the blade 
shall be considered to extend also to this lower portion of the 
handle where relevant.
 1.2.2 The handle may be glued where necessary and bound with twine 
along the upper portion. 
  Providing clause 5.5 is not contravened, the upper portion may 
be covered with materials solely to provide a surface suitable for 
gripping. Such covering is an addition and is not part of the bat, 
except in relation to clause 5.6. The bottom of this grip should not 
extend	below	the	point	defined	in	paragraph	1.2.4	below.
  Twine binding and the covering grip may extend beyond the 
junction of the upper and lower portions of the handle, to cover 
part	of	the	shoulders	of	the	bat	as	defined	in	paragraph	1.3.1.
  No material may be placed on or inserted into the lower portion 
of the handle other than as permitted above together with the 
minimal	adhesives	or	adhesive	tape	used	solely	for	fixing	these	
items,	or	for	fixing	the	handle	to	the	blade.
	 1.2.3	 Materials	in	handle	–	As	a	proportion	of	the	total	volume	of	the	
handle, materials other than cane, wood or twine are restricted 
to one-tenth. Such materials must not project more than 3.25 
in/8.26 cm into the lower portion of the handle.
	 1.2.4	 Binding	and	covering	of	handle	–	The	permitted	continuation	
beyond the junction of the upper and lower portions of the 
handle is restricted to a maximum, measured along the length of 
the handle, of
  2.5 in/6.35 cm in for the twine binding.
  2.75 in/6.99 cm for the covering grip. 13 OFF SIDE/ON SIDE; IN FRONT OF/  
BEHIND THE POPPING CREASE
 
Behind the 
popping crease
Off side
In front of the 
popping crease
Off sideBehind the 
popping crease
On side (leg side)
In front of the 
popping crease
On side (leg side)WICKET-KEEPER
UMPIREBOWLERRight-handed strikerICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.92 9.93	 1.5	 Commercial	identifications	
	 	 Such	identifications	shall	comply	with	the	restrictions	set	out	in	the	
Clothing and Equipment Regulations in relation to the size and position 
of marks and logos.
 1.6 Bat Gauge
	 	 All	bats	must	meet	the	specifications	defined	in	clause	5.7.	They	must	
also, with or without protective coverings permitted in clause 5.4, be 
able to pass through a bat gauge, the dimensions and shape of which 
are shown in the following diagram:
  DIMENSIONS OF APERTURE
  Total Depth: 2.68 in/6.8 cm
  Width: 4.33 in/11.0 cm
  Edge: 1.61 in/4.1 cm
  Curve: 0.20 in/0.5 cm
  Note: The curve of the lower edge of the aperture is an arc of a circle  
of radius 12.0 in/30.5 cm, whose centre is on the vertical centre line of 
the aperture.	 1.3	 Specifications	for	the	Blade
 1.3.1 The blade has a face, a back, a toe, sides and shoulders
 1.3.1.1 The face of the blade is its main striking surface and shall be 
flat	or	have	a	slight	convex	curve	resulting	from	traditional 	
pressing techniques. The back is the opposite surface.
 1.3.1.2 The shoulders, sides and toe are the remaining surfaces, 
separating the face and the back.
 1.3.1.3 The shoulders, one on each side of the handle, are along 
that	portion	of	the	blade	between	the	first	entry	point	of	
the	handle	and	the	point	at	which	the	blade	first	reaches	
its full width.
 1.3.1.4 The toe is the surface opposite to the shoulders taken  
as a pair.
 1.3.1.5 The sides, one each side of the blade, are along the rest 
of the blade, between the toe and the shoulders.
 1.3.2 No material may be placed on or inserted into the blade other 
than as permitted in paragraph 1.2.4, paragraph 1.3.3, and clause 
5.4 together with the minimal adhesives or adhesive tape used 
solely	for	fixing	these	items,	or	for	fixing	the	handle	to	the	blade.
 1.3.3 Covering the blade. Bats shall have no covering on the blade 
except as permitted in clause 5.4. 
  Any materials referred to above, in clause 5.4 and paragraph 1.4 
below, are to be considered as part of the bat, which must still 
pass	through	the	gauge	as	defined	in	paragraph	1.6.
 1.4 Protection and repair 
 1.4.1 The surface of the blade may be treated with non-solid materials 
to improve resistance to moisture penetration and/or mask 
natural blemishes in the appearance of the wood. Save for the 
purpose of giving a homogeneous appearance by masking 
natural blemishes, such treatment shall not materially alter the 
colour of the blade. 
 1.4.2 Materials can be used for protection and repair as stated in clause 
5.4 and are additional to the blade. Note however clause 5.6.
  Any such material shall not extend over any part of the back of 
the blade except in the case of clause 5.4.1 and then only when it 
is applied as a continuous wrapping covering the damaged area.
  The repair material shall not extend along the length of the blade 
more than 0.79 in/2.0 cm in each direction beyond the limits of the 
damaged area. Where used as a continuous binding, any overlapping 
shall not breach the maximum of 0.04 in/0.1 cm in total thickness.
  The use of non-solid material which when dry forms a hard layer 
more than 0.004 in/0.01 cm in thickness is not permitted.
 1.4.3 Permitted coverings, repair material and toe guards, not 
exceeding	their	specified	thicknesses,	may	be	additional	to	the	
dimensions above, but the bat must still pass through the gauge 
as described in paragraph 1.6.Depth 6.8cmEdge
4.1cmWidth 11.0cm
0.5cmICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.94 9.95 3 WICKET-KEEPING GLOVES
 3.1 The images below illustrate the requirements of clause 27.2 in relation to:
	 •	 no	webbing	between	the	fingers;
	 •	 a	single	piece	of	non-stretch	material	between	finger	and	thumb	as	a	
means of support; and
 • when a hand wearing the glove has the thumb fully extended, the 
top edge being taut and not protruding beyond the straight line 
joining	the	top	of	the	index	finger	to	the	top	of	the	thumb.
 3.2 Note also the requirement for wicket-keeping gloves to comply with 
the Clothing and Equipment Regulations in relation to the size and 
position of marks and logos. 2 THE WICKETS
 2.1 Bails
  Overall 4.31 in/10.95 cm
  a = 1.38 in/3.50 cm
  b = 2.13 in/5.40 cm
  c = 0.81 in/2.06 cm
 2.2 Stumps
  Height (d) = 28 in/71.1 cm
  Diameter (e) - maximum = 1.5 in/3.81 cm; minimum = 1.38 in/3.50 cm
 2.3 Overall
  Width (f) of wicket 9 in/22.86 cm
e e edb ba a c c
ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.96 9.97 2 RESTRICTION ON THE PLACEMENT OF FIELDERS APPENDIX C
THE VENUE
 1 THE PITCH AND THE CREASES
 
5ft/1.52m
Minimum
15 yards/13.71mProtected Area
Indicators
Popping
CreaseReturn
Crease
Return
CreaseBowling
Crease
Protected
Area
Indicators
Minimum
8ft/2.44m9in/22.86cm4ft/1.22cm
8ft 8in 
/2.64m1ft
30.48cm
22yds/20.12m17in/43.18cmWide
GuidelinesContinuous white line, or dots
at 5 yard (4.5 metre) intervals
25.15 yard (23 metre) radiusfrom middle of stump
25.15 yard (23 metre) radiusfrom middle of stumpICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.98 9.99APPENDIX D
DECISION REVIEW SYSTEM (DRS)  
AND THIRD UMPIRE PROTOCOL
 1 GENERAL
 1.1 Minimum requirements for use of DRS and appointment of third umpire
 1.1.1 The Home Board shall endeavor to broadcast all T20I Matches 
played in its country.
	 1.1.2	 Where	matches	are	broadcast,	the	camera	specification	set	out	
below shall be mandatory as a minimum requirement.
	 1.1.3	 Where	the	camera	specification	set	out	above	is	provided,	a	third	
umpire shall be appointed to the match.
	 1.1.4	 If	the	minimum	requirements	for	DRS	to	be	used	are	satisfied,	both 	
participating Boards may agree to employ the DRS for a T20I match. 
Otherwise, the third umpire shall be appointed and empowered to 
use broadcast replays to make decisions that are referred to him/her 
in accordance with paragraph 2 (Umpire Reviews). 3 ADVERTISING ON GROUNDS, PERIMETER BOARDS  
AND SIGHT-SCREENS
 3.1 Advertising on grounds
	 3.1.1	 The	logos	on	outfields	are	to	be	positioned	as	follows:	
	 a)	 Behind	the	stumps	–	a	minimum	of	25.15	yards	(23	meters)	
from the stumps. 
	 b)	 Midwicket/cover	area	–	no	advertising	to	be	positioned	
within 30 yards (27.50 meters) of the centre of the pitch 
being used for the match. 
 3.1.2 Note: Advertising closer to the stumps as set out above which 
is required to meet 3D requirements for broadcasters may be 
permitted, subject to prior ICC approval having been obtained. 
 3.2 Perimeter boards
 3.2.1 Advertising on perimeter boards placed in front of the sight-
screens is permitted save that the predominant colour of such 
advertising shall be of a contrasting colour to that of the ball. 
 3.2.2 Advertising on perimeter boards behind the stumps at both ends 
shall	not	contain	moving,	flashing	or	flickering	images	and	operators 	
should ensure that the images are only changed or moved at a time 
that will not be distracting to the players or the umpires. 
 3.2.3 The brightness of any electronic images shall be set at a level so 
that it is not a distraction to the players or umpires.
 3.3 Sight-screens 
 3.3.1 Sight-screens shall be provided at both ends of all grounds.
 3.3.2 Advertising shall be permitted on the sight-screen behind the striker, 
providing it is removed for the subsequent over from that end.
	 3.3.3	 Such	advertising	shall	not	contain	flashing	or	flickering	images	and 	
particular care should be taken by the operators that the advertising 
is not changed at a time which is distracting to the umpire.
 4 MARKINGS ON OUTFIELD
 With the permission of the Ground Authority, a bowler may use paint to make 
a	small	marking	on	the	outfield	for	the	purposes	of	identifying	their	run-up.	
Paint used for this purpose shall be any colour other than white.Run Out Camera 1
Run Out Camera 2Run Out Camera 3
Run Out Camera 4Ball Follow 1
Ball Follow 2ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.100 9.101 2 UMPIRE REVIEW
 For televised matches, in the circumstances detailed in paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 
2.3	and	2.4	below,	the	on-field	umpire	shall	have	the	discretion	to	refer	the	
decision to the third umpire or, in the case of paragraphs 2.2, and 2.4, to 
consult with the third umpire before making the decision.
 Save for requesting the umpire to review his/her decision under paragraph 3 
(Player	Review)	below,	players	may	not	appeal	to	the	on-field	umpires	to	use	
the Umpire Review. Breach of this provision may constitute dissent and the 
player may be subject to disciplinary action under the ICC Code of Conduct 
for Players and Player Support Personnel.
 2.1 Run Out, Stumped, Bowled and Hit Wicket Decisions
	 2.1.1	 The	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	be	entitled	to	refer	an	appeal	
for run-out, stumped, bowled or hit wicket to the third umpire.
	 2.1.2	 An	on-field	umpire	wishing	to	refer	a	decision	to	the	third	umpire	
shall signal to the third umpire by making the shape of a TV 
screen with his/her hands.
 2.1.3 In the case of a referral of a bowled, hit wicket or stumped 
decision,	the	third	umpire	shall	first	check	the	fairness	of	the	
delivery (all modes of No ball except for the bowler using an 
Illegal Bowling Action, subject to the proviso that the third 
umpire may review whether the bowler has used a prohibited 
Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	Bowling	
Regulations). If the delivery was not a fair delivery the third 
umpire shall indicate that the batter is Not out and advise the 
on-field	umpire	to	signal	No	ball.	See	also	paragraph	2.5	below.
	 2.1.4	 Additionally,	if	the	third	umpire	finds	the	batter	is	Out	by	another	
mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), or Not out by any mode of 
dismissal	(excluding	LBW),	he/she	shall	notify	the	on-field	umpire	
so that the correct decision is made.
 2.1.5 If the third umpire decides that the batter is Out, a red light shall 
be displayed; if the third umpire decides that the batter is Not 
out, a green light shall be displayed. Should the third umpire be 
temporarily unable to respond, a white light (where available) 
shall remain illuminated throughout the period of interruption 
to	signify	to	the	on-field	umpires	that	Umpire	Reviews	are	
temporarily unavailable, in which case the decision shall be taken 
by	the	on-field	umpire.	As	an	alternative	to	the	red/green	light	
system, the replay screen (where available) may be used for the 
purpose of conveying the third umpire’s decision, in line with the 
ICC Big Screen Policy.
 2.2 Caught Decisions, Obstructing the Field
 2.2.1 Where the bowler’s end umpire is unable to decide upon a Fair 
Catch	or	a	Bump	Ball,	or	if,	on	appeal	from	the	fielding	side,	the	
batter	obstructed	the	field,	he/she	shall	first	consult	with	the	
striker’s end umpire. 1.1.5 The table below summarises the minimum requirements for 
DRS to be used, and the recommended regulations around the 
appointment of the third umpire:
THIRD UMPIRE (NON-DRS) DRS
Minimum 
RequirementCameras	Specification	
detailed in paragraph 1.1.2.Cameras
-	 Specification	detailed	
in paragraph 1.1.2. 
Technology.
- Approved ball-tracking 
technology.
- Approved 
sound-based edge 
detection technology.
Third Umpire 
AppointmentAppointed by Home Board 
from the ICC Elite Panel, 
International Panel or First 
Class Panel of umpires.Appointed by the Home 
Board from the ICC Elite 
Panel or International 
Panel of umpires.
Third Umpire 
JurisdictionUmpire Reviews only. Umpire Reviews and 
Player Reviews.
Replays that 
can be usedThe third umpire shall only 
have access to replays of 
any camera images. Other 
technology which may be 
in use by the broadcaster 
for broadcast purposes 
(for example, ball-tracking 
technology, sound-based 
edge detection technology, 
and heat-based edge 
detection technology)  
shall not be used during 
Umpire Reviews.Any replay, stump 
microphone audio or 
technology detailed in 
paragraph 3.8.1 below.
ICC Technical 
OfficerNot required. The ICC shall appoint an 
independent technology 
expert (ICC Technical 
Officer)	to	be	present	
at every series in which 
the DRS is used to assist 
the third umpire and to 
protect the integrity of 
the DRS process.
 1.1.6 The Home Board shall ensure that a separate room is provided 
for the third umpire and that he/she has access to the television 
equipment and technology (where DRS is used) so as to be in 
the best position to facilitate the referral and/or consultation 
processes referred to in paragraphs 2 (Umpire Review) and 3 
(Player Review) below.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.102 9.103	 2.3.5	 The	third	umpire	may	initiate	contact	with	the	on-field	umpire	
by two-way radio if TV coverage shows a boundary line 
infringement or incident that appears not to have been acted 
upon	by	the	on-field	umpires.
 2.4 Batters Running to the Same End
	 2.4.1	 Where	both	batters	have	run	to	the	same	end	and	the	on-field	
umpires	are	uncertain	over	which	batter	made	her	ground	first,	
the	on-field	umpires	may	consult	with	the	third	umpire.
 2.4.2 The procedure set out in paragraph 2.3.4 shall apply.
 2.5 No Balls
 2.5.1 If the bowler’s end umpire is uncertain as to the fairness of the 
delivery following a dismissal, either affecting the validity of the 
dismissal or which batter is dismissed, he/she shall be entitled 
to	request	the	batter	to	delay	leaving	the	field	and	to	check	the	
fairness of the delivery with the third umpire. Communication 
with the third umpire shall be by two-way radio.
 2.5.2 The third umpire shall check all modes of No ball except for the 
bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action (subject to the proviso 
that the third umpire may review whether the bowler has used 
a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	
Bowling Regulations). The third umpire shall apply clause 21.5 
when deciding whether a No ball should have been called (and 
must	therefore	be	satisfied	that	none	of	the	three	conditions	in	
clause 21.5 have been met before calling a No ball).
 2.5.3 If the delivery was not a fair delivery, the bowler’s end umpire 
shall indicate that the batter is Not out and signal No ball (except 
in	the	case	of	a	dismissal	for	obstructing	the	field,	which	may	
still be effected despite a No ball being called, in which case the 
bowler’s end umpire shall indicate that the relevant batter is Out 
and additionally call a No ball).
 2.5.4 If a No ball is called following the check by the third umpire, the 
batting	side	shall	benefit	from	the	reversal	of	the	dismissal	and	
the	one	run	for	the	No	ball,	but	shall	not	benefit	from	any	runs	
that may subsequently have accrued from the delivery had the 
on-field	umpire	originally	called	a	No	ball.	Where	the	batters	
crossed while the ball was in the air before being caught, the 
batters shall remain at the same ends as if the striker had been 
dismissed, but no runs shall be credited to the striker even if one 
(or more) runs were completed prior to the catch being taken.
 2.6 Cameras On or Over the Field of Play
	 2.6.1	 The	on-field	umpires	shall	be	entitled	to	refer	to	the	third	umpire	
for a decision as to whether the ball has at any time during the 
normal course of play come into contact with any part of the 
camera, its apparatus or its cables above the playing area, as 
contemplated in clause 20.1.3.	 2.2.2	 Should	both	on-field	umpires	require	assistance	from	the	third 	
umpire	to	make	a	decision,	the	bowler’s	end	umpire	shall	firstly 	
take	a	decision	on-field	after	consulting	with	the	striker’s	end 	
umpire, before consulting by two-way radio with the third umpire. 
Such consultation shall be initiated by the bowler’s end umpire to 
the third umpire by making the shape of a TV screen with his/her 
hands, followed by a Soft Signal of Out or Not out made with the 
hands close to the chest at chest height. If the third umpire advises 
that	the	replay	evidence	is	inconclusive,	the	on-field	decision 	
communicated at the start of the consultation process shall stand.
 2.2.3 The third umpire shall determine whether the batter has been 
caught, whether the delivery was a Bump Ball, or if the batter 
obstructed	the	field.	However,	in	reviewing	the	television	
replay(s),	the	third	umpire	shall	first	check	the	fairness	of	the	
delivery for all decisions involving a catch (all modes of No ball 
except for the bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action, subject 
to the proviso that the third umpire may review whether the 
bowler	has	used	a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	
of the Illegal Bowling Regulations) and whether the batter has 
hit the ball. If the delivery was not a fair delivery or if it is clear to 
the third umpire that the batter did not hit the ball he/she shall 
indicate to the bowler’s end umpire that the batter is Not out 
caught, and in the case of an unfair delivery, advise the bowler’s 
end umpire to signal No ball. See also paragraph 2.5 below. 
Additionally, if it is clear to the third umpire that the batter is 
Out by another mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), or Not out by 
any mode of dismissal (excluding LBW), he/she shall notify the 
bowler’s end umpire so that the correct decision can be made.
 2.2.4 The third umpire shall communicate his/her decision as set out in 
paragraph 2.1.5.
 2.3 Boundary Decisions
 2.3.1 The bowler’s end umpire shall be entitled to refer to the third 
umpire for a decision on:
 2.3.1.1 whether a four or six has been scored;
	 2.3.1.2	 whether	a	fielder	had	any	part	of	her	person	in	contact	
with the ball when she touched the boundary; or
	 2.3.1.3	 whether	the	fielder	had	any	part	of	her	person	in	contact	
with the ball when she had any part of her person 
grounded beyond the boundary.
 2.3.2 A decision shall be made immediately and cannot be  
changed thereafter.
 2.3.3 If the television evidence is inconclusive as to whether or not a 
boundary has been scored, the default presumption shall be in 
favour of no boundary being awarded.
 2.3.4 Where the bowler’s end umpire wishes to use the assistance of 
the third umpire in this circumstance, he/she shall communicate 
with the third umpire by use of a two-way radio and the third 
umpire shall convey his/her decision to the bowler’s end umpire 
by the same method.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.104 9.105	 3.2.3	 The	captain	may	consult	with	the	bowler	and	other	fielders,	and	
the two batters may consult with each other prior to deciding 
whether to request a Player Review. Under no circumstances is 
any player permitted to query an umpire about any aspect of a 
decision before deciding on whether or not to request a Player 
Review.	If	the	on-field	umpires	believe	that	the	captain	or	either	
batter has received direct or indirect input emanating other than 
from	the	players	on	the	field,	then	they	may	at	their	discretion	
decline the request for a Player Review. In particular, signals from 
the dressing room must not be given.
 3.2.4 No replays, either at normal speed or slow motion, shall be 
shown on a big screen to spectators until the 15 second time limit 
allowed for requesting a Player Review has elapsed. The only 
exception to this provision is where a Player Review of a caught 
decision is requested after the Umpire Review of a Fair Catch or 
Bump Ball has concluded, as detailed in paragraph 3.2.2 above 
(due to the fact that replays may have been shown on the big 
screen during that Umpire Review process).
	 3.2.5	 Where	either	on-field	umpire	initiates	an	Umpire	Review,	this	
does not preclude a player seeking a Player Review of a separate 
incident from the same delivery. The request for a Player Review 
may be made after the Umpire Review, provided the request is 
still within the 15 second time limit described in paragraph 3.2.2 
above. (See paragraphs 3.9.2 and 3.9.3 below for the process for 
addressing both an Umpire and Player Review).
 3.2.6 A request for a Player Review cannot be withdrawn once it has 
been made.
 3.3 The process of consultation
 3.3.1 On receipt of an eligible and timely request for a Player Review, 
the	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	make	the	sign	of	a	shape	of	a	
TV screen with his/her hands in the normal way.
	 3.3.2	 The	relevant	on-field	umpire	shall	initiate	communication	with	
the	third	umpire	by	confirming;
 3.3.2.1 That a Player Review has been requested,
	 3.3.2.2	 The	mode	of	dismissal	for	which	the	relevant	on-field	
umpire adjudicated the appeal,
 3.3.2.3 The decision that has been made (Out or Not out), and;
 3.3.2.4 For LBW appeals, where relevant, if the bowler’s end 
umpire believed that the striker made no genuine 
attempt to play the ball with the bat (the default 
presumption of the third umpire in the absence of any 
information on this point from the bowler’s end umpire 
shall be that a genuine attempt to play the ball with the 
bat was made).
 3.3.3 A two-way consultation process shall begin to investigate 
whether there is anything that the third umpire can see or hear 
which	would	indicate	that	the	on-field	umpire	should	change	his/
her original decision.	 2.6.2	 Where	an	on-field	umpire	wishes	to	use	the	assistance	of	the	
third umpire in this circumstance, he/she shall communicate with 
the third umpire by use of a two-way radio and the third umpire 
shall convey his/her decision to the bowler’s end umpire by the 
same method.
 2.6.3 A decision shall be made immediately and cannot be changed 
thereafter. If the television evidence is inconclusive as to whether 
or not the ball has come into contact with any part of the camera, 
its apparatus or its cables above the playing area, the default 
presumption shall be in favour of no contact having been made.
	 2.6.4	 The	third	umpire	may	initiate	contact	with	the	on-field	umpire	
by two-way radio if TV coverage shows the ball to have been 
in contact with any part of the camera or its cables above the 
playing area as envisaged under this paragraph.
 3 PLAYER REVIEW
 The following paragraphs shall operate in addition to and in conjunction with 
paragraph 2 (Umpire Review).
 3.1 Circumstances in which a Player Review may be requested
 3.1.1 A player may request a review of any decision taken by the 
on-field	umpires	concerning	whether	or	not	a	batter	is	dismissed,	
with	the	exception	of	‘Timed	Out’	(Player	Review).
 3.1.2 No other decisions made by the umpires are eligible for a Player 
Review with the exception of Fair Catch/Bump Ball (even after the 
third umpire has been consulted and the decision communicated).
 3.1.3 Only the batter involved in a dismissal may request a Player Review 
of an Out decision and only the captain (or acting captain) of the 
fielding	team	may	request	a	Player	Review	of	a	Not	out	decision.
 3.1.4 A decision concerning whether or not a batter is dismissed that 
could have been the subject of a Umpire Review under paragraph 
2 is eligible for a Player Review as soon as it is clear that the 
on-field	umpire	has	chosen	not	to	initiate	the	Umpire	Review.
 3.2 The manner of requesting the Player Review
	 3.2.1	 The	request	shall	be	made	by	the	player	making	a	‘T’	sign	with	
both forearms at head height.
 3.2.2 The total time elapsed between the ball becoming dead and the 
review request being made shall be no more than 15 seconds. 
The only exception permitted shall be when an Umpire Review 
for Fair Catch or Bump Ball (as permitted in paragraph 2.2 above) 
is required to answer an appeal for a caught decision, in which 
case either team is able to request a Player Review of that caught 
decision within 15 seconds of the decision being communicated. 
The bowler’s end umpire shall provide the relevant player with 
a prompt after 10 seconds if the request has not been made at 
that time and the player shall request the review immediately 
thereafter.	If	the	on-field	umpires	believe	that	a	request	has	not	
been made within the 15 second time limit, they shall decline the 
request for a Player Review.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.106 9.107 3.4.3 This Decision Review System (DRS) and Third Umpire Protocol 
includes a category of Umpire’s Call, which shall be the 
conclusion reported where the technology indicates a marginal 
decision	in	respect	of	either	the	point	of	first	interception	or	
whether the ball would have hit the stumps.
 3.4.4 PITCHING
 3.4.4.1 The interpretation of “pitches in line between wicket and 
wicket” in clause 36.1.2 shall refer to the position of the 
centre of the ball at the point of pitching, in relation to 
the Pitching Zone.
	 3.4.4.2	 The	Pitching	Zone	is	defined	as	a	two	dimensional	area	
on the pitch between both sets of stumps with its 
boundaries consisting of the base of both sets of stumps 
and a line between the outside of the outer stumps at 
each end.
 3.4.4.3 Where applicable, the ball-tracking technology shall 
report that the ball pitched in one of the following three 
areas in relation to the Pitching Zone:
In Line The centre of the ball was inside  
the Pitching Zone.
Outside Off The centre of the ball was outside,  
and to the off side of, the Pitching Zone.
Outside Leg The centre of the ball was outside,  
and to the leg side of, the Pitching Zone.
 3.4.4.4 Subject to the satisfaction of the other elements of 
clause 36, the batter can be Out if the ball-tracking 
technology reports that the ball pitched Outside Off or 
In Line, but the batter shall be Not out if the ball pitched 
Outside Leg.
 3.4.5 IMPACT
	 3.4.5.1	 The	interpretation	of	“the	(first)	point	of	impact,	even	
if in above the level of the bails, is between wicket and 
wicket” in clause 36.1.4 shall refer to the position of the 
ball	at	the	point	of	first	interception,	in	relation	to	the	
Impact Zone.
	 3.4.5.2	 The	Impact	Zone	is	defined	as	a	three	dimensional	space	
extending	between	both	wickets	to	an	indefinite	height	
and with its boundaries consisting of a line between the 
outside of the outer stumps at each end. 3.3.4 The third umpire shall not withhold any factual information 
which may help in the decision making process. In particular, 
in reviewing a dismissal, if the third umpire believes that the 
batter may instead be Out by any other mode of dismissal, he/
she	shall	advise	the	on-field	umpire	accordingly.	The	process	of	
consultation described in this paragraph in respect of such other 
mode of dismissal shall then be conducted as if the batter has 
been given Not out.
 3.3.5 The third umpire shall initially check all modes of No ball except 
for the bowler using an Illegal Bowling Action (subject to the 
proviso that the third umpire may review whether the bowler has 
used	a	prohibited	Specific	Variation	under	Article	6.2	of	the	Illegal	
Bowling	Regulations),	where	appropriate	advising	the	on-field	
umpire accordingly.
 3.3.6 If despite the available technology, the third umpire is unable 
to	decide	with	a	high	degree	of	confidence	whether	the	original	
on-field	decision	should	be	changed,	then	he/she	shall	report	
that	the	replays	are	‘inconclusive’,	and	that	the	on-field	decision	
shall stand. The third umpire shall not give answers conveying 
likelihoods or probabilities.
 3.3.7 In circumstances where the television technology (all or parts 
thereof) is not available to the third umpire or fails for whatever 
reason,	the	third	umpire	shall	advise	the	on-field	umpire	of	  
this fact but still provide any relevant factual information that 
may be ascertained from the available television replays and 
other technology.
	 3.3.8	 The	on-field	umpire	shall	then	make	his/her	decision	based	on	
the information provided by the third umpire, any other factual 
information offered by the third umpire and his/her recollection 
and opinion of the original incident.
	 3.3.9	 The	on-field	umpire	shall	reverse	his/her	decision	if	the	nature	of	the 	
supplementary information received from the third umpire leads 
him/her to conclude that his/her original decision was incorrect.
 3.4 Review of LBW Decisions
 3.4.1 In assessing whether a batter is Out LBW in accordance with 
clause	36,	the	third	umpire	shall	first	judge	whether	the	delivery	
is fair (as set out in clause 36.1.1), and second, whether or not the 
ball has touched the bat before being intercepted by any part of 
the striker’s person (as set out in clause 36.1.3).
 3.4.2 If the batter is still eligible to be Out, the ball-tracking technology 
shall then present three pieces of information to the third umpire 
relating to the path of the ball:
 3.4.2.1 The point of pitching (where applicable) (PITCHING).
	 3.4.2.2	 The	position	of	the	ball	at	the	point	of	first	interception	
(IMPACT).
 3.4.2.3 Whether the ball would have hit the wicket (WICKET).ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.108 9.109 3.4.6 WICKET
 3.4.6.1 The interpretation of whether “the ball would have hit 
the wicket” in clause 36.1.5 shall refer to the position of 
the ball as it either hits or passes the wicket, in relation 
to the Wicket Zone.
	 3.4.6.2	 The	Wicket	Zone	is	defined	as	a	two	dimensional	area	
whose boundaries are the outside of the outer stumps, 
the base of the stumps and the bottom of the bails.
 3.4.6.3 The ball-tracking technology shall report whether the 
ball would have hit the wicket with reference to the 
following three categories:
Hitting The ball was hitting the wicket, and the centre of 
the ball was inside the Wicket Zone.
Umpire’s 
CallThe ball was hitting the wicket, but the centre 
of the ball was not inside the Wicket Zone.
Missing The ball was missing the wicket.
 3.4.6.4 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, the ball-
tracking technology must report that the ball was Hitting 
for the batter to be eligible to be given Out, otherwise 
the batter shall remain Not out.
  However, where the evidence shows that the ball was 
Hitting,	the	point	of	first	interception	was	In	Line,	and	
the ball pitched In Line or Outside Off, but that:
	 •	 The	point	of	first	interception	was	300cm	or	more	
from the stumps; or
	 •	 The	point	of	first	interception	was	more	than	250cm	
but less than 300cm from the stumps and the distance 
between	the	point	of	pitching	and	the	point	of	first	
interception was less than 40cm,
	 	 the	on-field	decision	shall	stand	(that	is,	Not	out).
 3.4.6.5 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, the ball-tracking 
technology must report that the ball was Missing for the 
on-field	decision	to	be	reversed	to	Not	out,	otherwise	the 	
batter shall remain eligible to be given Out.
 3.4.7 When the ball strikes the batter on the full, and the evidence 
provided by the ball-tracking technology indicates that the ball 
would have pitched before striking or passing the wicket, there 
will be no information available from that delivery that will allow 
the ball-tracking technology to accurately predict the height of 
the ball after pitching.
 3.4.8 With regard to determining whether the ball would have hit the 
wicket under these circumstances, the ball-tracking technology 
shall project the line of the ball in accordance with clause 36.2.3 
(it is to be assumed that the path of the ball before interception 
would have continued after interception, irrespective of whether 
the ball might have pitched subsequently or not), and display the 
simulated path of the ball from directly above the wicket. 3.4.5.3 The ball-tracking technology shall report that the 
point	of	first	interception	was	in	one	of	the	following	
categories in relation to the Impact Zone:
In Line The centre of the ball was inside the Impact Zone.
Umpire’s 
CallSome part of the ball was inside the Impact 
Zone, but the centre of the ball was outside the 
Impact Zone, with the further sub-category of 
‘Umpire’s	Call	(off	side)’	where	the	centre	of	the	
ball was to the off side of the Impact Zone and 
the bowler’s end umpire communicates to the 
third umpire that no genuine attempt to play 
the ball was made by the batter.
Outside No part of the ball was inside the Impact Zone, 
with	the	further	sub-categories	of	‘Outside	
(off)’	and	‘Outside	(leg)’	to	indicate	the	location	
of	the	point	of	first	interception	in	relation	to	
the Impact Zone when the bowler’s end umpire 
communicates to the third umpire that no 
genuine attempt to play the ball was made by 
the batter.
 3.4.5.4 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batter has made a genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	In	Line	for	the	
batter to be eligible to be given Out, otherwise the 
batter shall remain Not out.
 3.4.5.5 Where a Not out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batter has made no genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that the point of impact was In Line, or Umpire’s Call (off 
side), or Outside (off) for the batter to be eligible to be 
given Out, otherwise the batter shall remain Not out.
 3.4.5.6 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batter has made a genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	Outside	for	the	
decision to be reversed to Not out, otherwise the batter 
shall remain eligible to be given Out.
 3.4.5.7 Where an Out decision is being reviewed, and it is 
judged that the batter has made no genuine attempt to 
play the ball, the ball-tracking technology must report 
that	the	point	of	first	interception	was	Outside	(leg)	for	
the decision to be reversed to Not out, otherwise the 
batter shall remain eligible to be given Out.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.110 9.111 3.6.7 Where a Player Review and an Umpire Review are requested 
from the same delivery and the decision of the third umpire from 
the Umpire Review renders the Player Review unnecessary (see 
paragraphs 3.9.2 and 3.9.3), the Player Review request shall be 
disregarded and accordingly shall not count towards the innings 
limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
	 3.6.8	 A	Player	Review	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	may	be	reinstated	
by the ICC Match Referee at his/her sole discretion (if appropriate 
after	consultation	with	the	ICC	Technical	Official	and/or	the	
television broadcast director) if the Player Review could not 
properly be concluded due to a failure of the technology. Any 
such	decision	shall	be	final	and	shall	be	taken	as	soon	as	possible,	
being communicated to both teams once all the relevant facts 
have been ascertained by the ICC Match Referee. A Player Review 
categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	shall	not	be	reinstated	if,	despite	
any technical failures, the correct decision could still have been 
made using the other available technology. Similarly, a Player 
Review	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	shall	not	be	reinstated	
where the technology worked as intended, but the evidence 
gleaned from its use was inconclusive.
 3.6.9 The third umpire shall be responsible for counting the number 
Player	Reviews	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	and	shall	advise	the	
on-field	umpires	once	either	team	has	exhausted	their	allowance	
for the innings.
 3.6.10 The scoreboard shall display, for the innings in progress, the 
number of Player Reviews remaining available to each team.
CATEGORY OF 
PLAYER REVIEWOUTCOME  
OF PLAYER 
REVIEW CONSEQUENCE OF 
PLAYER REVIEW
Successful  
(paragraph 3.6.2)On-field	decision	
reversed Does not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
Unsuccessful 
(paragraphs 3.6.3  
and 3.6.5)On-field	decision	
unchangedCounts towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
Unchanged	–	
Umpire’s Call 
(paragraph 3.6.4)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
No	ball	–	no	
evaluation required 
(paragraph 3.6.6)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1
Failure of technology 
(paragraph 3.6.8)On-field	decision	
unchangedDoes not count towards 
innings limit set out in 
paragraph 3.6.1 3.4.9 The third umpire shall advise the bowler’s end umpire only on 
the	point	of	first	interception	and	whether	the	ball	would	have	
hit the stumps (in line with the process set out in paragraph 3.4 
above), but shall make no comment on the predicted height 
of the ball after pitching, which shall remain a judgment of the 
bowler’s end umpire.
	 3.5	 The	process	for	communicating	the	final	decision
 3.5.1 For Player Reviews concerning potential dismissals, the relevant 
on-field	umpire	shall	indicate	Out	by	raising	his/her	finger	above	
his/her head in a normal yet prominent manner or indicate Not 
out	by	the	call	of	‘not	out’	and	by	crossing	his/her	hands	in	a	
horizontal position side to side in front and above his/her waist 
three	times.	Where	the	decision	is	a	reversal	of	the	on-field	
umpire’s	previous	decision,	he/she	shall	make	the	‘revoke	last	
signal’ indication immediately prior to the above.
 3.5.2 If the mode of dismissal is not obvious or not the same as that 
on which the original decision was based, then the umpire shall 
advise the scorers via the third umpire.
 3.6 Number of Player Review requests permitted
 3.6.1 In each innings, each team shall be allowed to make a maximum 
of	one	Player	Review	request	that	is	categorised	as	‘Unsuccessful’	
(as set out in paragraph 3.6.3 below).
 3.6.2 Where a request for a Player Review results in the original 
on-field	decision	being	reversed,	then	the	Player	Review	shall	
be	categorised	as	‘Successful’	and	shall	not	count	towards	the	
innings limit.
 3.6.3 Where a request for a Player Review results in the original 
on-field	decision	remaining	unchanged	(other	than	in	the	
circumstances set out in paragraphs 3.6.4, 3.6.6 or 3.6.8), the Player 
Review shall be categorised as ’Unsuccessful’.
 3.6.4 Where a request for a Player Review of an LBW decision results 
in	the	on-field	decision	remaining	unchanged	solely	on	the	basis	
of an Umpire’s Call, the Player Review shall be categorised as 
‘Unchanged	–	Umpire’s	Call’.	A	Player	Review	categorised	as	
‘Unchanged	–	Umpire’s	Call’	shall	not	count	towards	the	innings	
limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.
 3.6.5 Where, following a request for a Player Review, the original 
on-field	decision	of	Out	is	unchanged,	but	for	a	different	mode	
of	dismissal	from	the	original	on-field	decision,	then	the	Player	
Review shall still be categorised as ’Unsuccessful’.
 3.6.6 Where, following a request for a Player Review, the original 
on-field	decision	of	Not	out	is	unchanged	on	account	of	the	
delivery being a No ball (for any reason), thereby not requiring 
any further evaluation, the Player Review shall not be counted 
as	‘Unsuccessful’	and	accordingly	shall	not	count	towards	the	
innings limit set out in paragraph 3.6.1.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.112 9.113 3.9 Combining Umpire Review with Player Review
 3.9.1 If an Umpire Review (under paragraph 2) and a request for a 
Player Review (under paragraph 3) are made following the 
same delivery but relating to separate modes of dismissal, the 
following process shall apply.
 3.9.2 The Umpire Review shall be carried out prior to the Player Review 
if all of the following conditions apply:
	 3.9.2.1	 The	Player	Review	has	been	requested	by	the	fielding	side
 3.9.2.2 The Umpire Review and the Player Review both relate to 
the dismissal of the same batter
 3.9.2.3 If the batter is out, the number of runs scored from the 
delivery would be the same for both modes of dismissal
 3.9.2.4 If the batter is out, the batter on strike for the next 
delivery would be the same for both modes of dismissal.
 3.9.3 If the Umpire Review leads the third umpire to make a decision 
of Out, then this shall be displayed in the usual manner and the 
Player Review shall not be undertaken. If the Umpire Review 
results in a Not out decision, then the third umpire shall make 
no public decision but shall proceed to address the request for a 
Player Review.
 3.9.4 For illustration, following an LBW appeal which is given Not out 
by the bowler’s end umpire, the striker sets off for a run, is sent 
back and there is an appeal for her run out. The players request 
that the LBW decision is reviewed and the umpires request that 
the	run	out	be	reviewed.	The	four	criteria	above	are	satisfied,	so	
the	run	out	referral	is	determined	first.	Should	the	appeal	for	run	
out be Out, then there is no requirement for the LBW review to 
take place.
 3.9.5 In all other circumstances, the incidents shall be addressed in 
chronological	order.	If	the	conclusion	from	the	first	incident	is	
that a batter is dismissed, then the ball would be deemed to have 
become dead at that point, rendering investigation of the second 
incident unnecessary.
 4 INTERPRETATION OF PLAYING CONDITIONS
 4.1 When using a replay to determine the moment at which the wicket has 
been put down (as per clause 29.1), the third umpire shall deem this to 
be	the	first	frame	in	which	one	of	the	bails	is	shown	(or	can	be	deduced)	
to have lost all contact with the top of the stumps and subsequent 
frames show the bail permanently removed from the top of the stumps.
 4.2 Where LED Wickets are used (as provided for in paragraph 3.8.1.6) 
the moment at which the wicket has been put down (as per clause 
29.1)	shall	be	deemed	to	be	the	first	frame	in	which	the	LED	lights	are	
illuminated and subsequent frames show the bail permanently removed 
from the top of the stumps. 3.7 Dead ball
 3.7.1 If following a Player Review request, an original decision of 
Out is changed to Not out, then the ball is still deemed to have 
become dead when the original decision was made (as per clause 
20.1.1.3).	The	batting	side,	while	benefiting	from	the	reversal	of	the	
dismissal,	shall	not	benefit	from	any	runs	that	may	subsequently	
have	accrued	from	the	delivery	had	the	on-field	umpire	originally	
made a Not out decision, other than any No ball penalty that 
could arise under paragraph 3.3.5 above.
 3.7.2 If an original decision of Not out is changed to Out, the ball 
shall retrospectively be deemed to have become dead from the 
moment of the dismissal event. All subsequent events, including 
any runs scored, shall be ignored.
 3.8 Use of technology
 3.8.1 The following technology may be used by the third umpire during 
a Player Review:
 3.8.1.1 Replays, at any speed, from any available broadcast camera
 3.8.1.2 Sound from the stump microphones with the replays at 
normal speed and slow motion
 3.8.1.3 Approved ball-tracking technology: 
 • HawkEye (HawkEye Innovations), or;
 • VirtualEye (ARL)
 3.8.1.4 Approved sound-based edge detection technology:
 • Real-Time Snickometer (BBG Sports), or;
 • UltraEdge (HawkEye Innovations)
 3.8.1.5 Approved heat-based edge detection technology:
 • Hot Spot cameras (BBG Sports)
 3.8.1.6 LED Wickets (using the lights to indicate if the wicket is 
broken, as set out in paragraph 4.2):
 • Zing Bails and Stumps
 3.8.2 In addition, other forms of technology may be used subject to 
the	ICC	being	satisfied	that	the	required	standards	of	accuracy	
and	time	efficiency	can	be	met.
 3.8.3 Where practical usage or further testing indicates that any of the 
above forms of technology cannot reliably provide accurate and 
timely information, then it may be removed prior to or during a 
match.	The	final	decision	regarding	the	technology	to	be	used	
in a given match shall be taken by the ICC Match Referee in 
consultation	with	the	ICC	Technical	Official,	ICC	management	and	
the competing teams’ governing bodies.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.114 9.115Table 2: Calculation sheet to check whether an interruption during  
the First Innings should terminate the innings 
Proposed re-start time  ___________  (P) 
Rescheduled cut-off time allowing for full use  
of any extra time provision  ___________  (Q) 
Minutes between P and Q  ___________  (R) 
Potential	overs	to	be	bowled	[R/3.75]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________		(S)	
Number	of	complete	overs	faced	to	date	in	first	innings		 ___________	(T)	
If S is greater than T then revert to Table 1 
If	S	is	less	than	or	equal	to	T	then	the	first	innings	is	terminated	–	go	to	Table	3	
Table 3: Calculation sheet for the start of the Second Innings 
Maximum overs to be bowled: 
(If	first	innings	was	terminated,	S	from	Table	2)		 ___________		(A)	
Scheduled	length	of	innings:	[A	x	3.75]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________		(B)	
Start time ___________  (C) 
Scheduled	cessation	time	[C	+	B]		 ___________		(D)	
Overs	per	bowler	and	fielding	restrictions	
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[A/5]	 ___________		overs	
Duration of Powerplay overs  ___________ + ___________  overs 
(initial, batting side)  APPENDIX E
CALCULATIONS
Table 1: Calculation sheet for use when a delay or interruptions occur  
in the First Innings 
Time 
Net playing time available at start of the match  150 minutes  (A) 
Time innings in progress ___________ (B) 
Playing time lost ___________  (C) 
Extra time available ___________  (D) 
Time made up from reduced interval  ___________ (E) 
Effective	playing	time	lost	[C	–	(D	+	E)]		 ___________	 (F)	
Remaining	playing	time	available	(A	–	F)		 ___________	 (G)	
G divided by 3.75 (to 2 decimal places)  ___________ (H) 
Max	overs	per	team	[H/2]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________	 (	I	)	
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[I/5]		 ___________	
Duration of Powerplay Overs (initial, batting side)  ___________ + ___________ 
Rescheduled Playing Hours 
First session to commence or recommence ___________ ( J ) 
Length	of	innings	[I	x	3.75]	(round	up	fractions)		 ___________	 (K)	
Rescheduled	first	innings	cessation	time	[J	+	(K	–	B)]	 ___________	 (L)	
Length of interval  ___________  (M) 
Second	innings	commencement	time	[L	+	M]	 ___________	 (N)	
Rescheduled	second	innings	cessation	time	[N	+	K]		 ___________		*(O)
 
*	Ensure	that	the	match	is	not	finishing	earlier	than	the	original	or	rescheduled	
cessation time by applying clause 13.7.2. If so, add at least one over to each team 
and recalculate (I) to (O) above to prevent this from happening. ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.116 9.117Table 4: Calculation sheet for use when interruption occurs after the start  
of the Second Innings 
Time 
Time at start of innings  ___________  (A) 
Time at start of interruption ___________  (B) 
Time innings in progress ___________  (C) 
Restart time  ___________  (D) 
Length	of	interruption	[D	–	B]	 ___________		(E)	
Additional time available: ___________ (F) 
(Any	unused	provision	for	‘Extra	Time’	 
or for earlier than scheduled start of second innings)  
Total	playing	time	lost	[E	–	F]		 ___________		(G)	
Overs 
Maximum overs at start of innings  ___________  (H) 
Overs	lost	[G/3.75]	(rounded	down)		 ___________	(I)	
Adjusted	maximum	length	of	innings	[H	–	I]	 ___________	(J)	
Rescheduled	length	of	innings	[J	x	3.75	rounded	up]	 ___________	(K)	
Amended	cessation	time	of	innings	[D	+	(K	–	C)]	 ___________	(L)
Overs per bowler and Fielding Restrictions 
Maximum	overs	per	bowler	[J/5]	 ___________	overs
Duration of Powerplay overs  ___________ + ___________  overs 
(initial, batting side)    
  
 APPENDIX F
PROCEDURE FOR THE SUPER OVER
The following procedure shall apply if the playing conditions provide for a Super 
Over to decide the winner of a tied match.
1 If the match is tied a Super Over is played. If the Super Over is a tie, then 
subsequent Super Overs shall be played until there is a winner. Unless 
exceptional circumstances arise, there shall be an unlimited number of  
Super Overs played to achieve a result. (see Clause 24 below).
2 The Super Over involves each team facing one over (unless all out earlier), and  
the winner shall be the team that scores the most runs from its one over innings.
3 The loss of two wickets in the over ends the team’s one over innings.
4 Each team shall be allowed to make one unsuccessful Player Review in each 
innings of the Super Over. This entitlement shall apply irrespective of the 
number of unsuccessful Player Review requests made during the match itself.
5 Subject to weather conditions the Super Over will take place on the 
scheduled day of the match at a time to be determined by the ICC Match 
Referee. In normal circumstances it shall commence 5 minutes after the 
conclusion of the match.
6 The Super Over will be played until completion, but if there are any delays or 
interruptions	during	the	Super	Over,	Extra	Time	(taken	from	the	start	of	the	first 	
Super Over) is allocated to complete the Super Over or any subsequent Super 
Overs. The amount of extra time allocated to the Super Over is the greater of;
 a. the gap between the time at which the match ended and the time the 
original	match	would	have	been	scheduled	to	finish	had	the	entire	extra	
time provision been utilized, or
 b. 20 minutes.
 Should play be delayed prior to or during the Super Over(s) once the  
playing time lost exceeds the Extra Time allocated, the Super Over(s) shall  
be abandoned.
7 The Super Over shall take place on the pitch allocated for the match  
(the designated pitch) unless otherwise determined by the umpires in 
consultation with the Ground Authority and the ICC Match Referee.
8 Only nominated players in the match (including activated concussion 
replacements) may participate in the Super Over. Should any player (including 
the batters and bowler) be unable to continue to participate in the Super Over 
due to injury, illness or other wholly acceptable reasons, the relevant Playing 
Conditions as they apply in the match shall also apply in the Super Over.
9 Any penalty time being served in the match shall be carried forward to the 
Super Over.ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONSICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS 09 09
9.118 9.11910	 The	umpires	shall	stand	at	the	same	end	as	that	in	which	they	finished	the	match. 	
11	 The	team	batting	second	in	the	match	shall	bat	first	in	the	Super	Over.
12	 The	captain	of	the	fielding	team	(or	her	nominee)	shall	select	the	ball	with	
which	the	fielding	team	shall	bowl	its	over	in	the	Super	Over	from	the	box	of	
spare balls provided by the umpires (which shall include the balls used in the 
match,	but	no	new	balls).	The	team	fielding	first	in	the	Super	Over	shall	have	
first	choice	of	ball.	The	team	fielding	second	may	choose	to	use	the	same	
ball	as	chosen	by	the	team	bowling	first.	If	the	ball	needs	to	be	changed,	the	
Playing Conditions shall apply.
13	 The	fielding	side	shall	choose	the	end	from	which	it	is	to	bowl	its	one	over.
14	 Each	team’s	over	is	played	with	the	same	fielding	restrictions	as	apply	  
for the last over in a match played under the ICC Twenty20 International 
Playing Conditions.
15 The winners of the Super Over shall be the team which scored the most runs 
as per normal playing conditions and irrespective of the number of wickets 
lost. (See also Clause 3 above).
TIED SUPER OVER - REPEATING THE SUPER OVER PROCEDURE
16 If the Super Over is tied, then subsequent Super Overs will be played until 
there is a winner.
17 In normal circumstances any subsequent Super Over will start 5 minutes after 
the previous Super Over ends. The interval shall be 5 minutes.
18	 The	team	batting	second	in	the	previous	Super	Over	will	bat	first	in	the	
subsequent Super Over.
19 The balls selected for use by each team in the previous Super Over shall be 
used again by the same team in subsequent Super Overs.
20	 The	fielding	side	must	bowl	its	over	in	a	subsequent	Super	Over	from	the	
opposite end to which it bowled from in the previous Super Over.
21 Any batter dismissed in any previous Super Over shall be ineligible to bat in 
the following Super Over.
22 The bowler who bowled the over in the previous Super Over shall be ineligible 
to bowl the over in the subsequent Super Over.
23 All other playing conditions will be the same as for the initial Super Over.
24 In circumstances where there are unavoidable time constraints, such as, but 
not limited to, double-header matches which do not allow the completion of 
multiple Super Over(s) the Home Board may, prior to the start of the series 
and	by	notification	to	the	participating	teams,	limit	the	number	of	possible	
Super Overs.EXAMPLES - EXTRA TIME AVAILABLE FOR THE SUPER OVER.
Example 1:	The	match	is	scheduled	to	finish	at	10.20pm,	with	60 minutes of extra time 
available to be used. The scheduled cut-off time if all the available extra time is used 
would	be	11.20pm.	The	match	runs	over	time	and	finishes	in	a	tie	at	10.35pm.	The	Super 	
Over is scheduled to start 5 minutes later at 10.40pm. The extra time available to 
complete the Super Over would be 40 minutes (as per Clause 5a above).
• The Super Over starts on time but is interrupted at 10.50pm for 10 minutes 
(leaving 30 minutes of extra time still available).
• Play resumes at 11.00pm with a tied Super Over occurring.
• The second super over is being played but is interrupted at 11.15pm.
• Play does not resume within 30 minutes (being the amount of extra time still 
available), therefore the Super Over process is abandoned, and the match is a tie.
Example 2: The	same	match	is	scheduled	to	finish	at	10.20pm,	but	with	 30 minutes 
of extra time available to be used. The scheduled cut-off time if all the available 
extra	time	is	used	would	be	10.50pm.	The	match	runs	over	time	and	finishes	in	a	
tie at 10.35pm. The Super Over is scheduled to start 5 minutes later at 10.40pm. 
The extra time available to complete the Super Over would be 20 minutes (as per 
Clause 5b above).ICC WOMEN’S TWENTY20 INTERNATIONAL 
PLAYING CONDITIONS09
9.120APPENDIX G
USE OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
The use of electronic communication devices and equipment of any kind to 
communicate	with	players	on	the	field	of	play	shall	not	be	permitted,	except	
that broadcaster to player communication shall, with the prior consent of the 
participating countries, be allowed.13.1ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS  
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL
CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 SCOPE AND APPLICATION 13.2
ARTICLE 2 CODE OF CONDUCT OFFENCES 13.3
ARTICLE 3 REPORTING AN ALLEGED OFFENCE  
 UNDER THE CODE OF CONDUCT 13.14
ARTICLE 4 NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE 13.18
ARTICLE 5 THE DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE 13.20
ARTICLE 6 STANDARD OF PROOF AND EVIDENCE 13.28
ARTICLE 7 SANCTIONS ON PLAYERS AND PLAYER  
 SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13.28
ARTICLE 8 APPEALS 13.36
ARTICLE 9 RECOGNITION OF DECISIONS 13.39
ARTICLE 10 SANCTIONS AND COSTS ASSESSED  
 AGAINST NATIONAL CRICKET FEDERATIONS 13.39
ARTICLE 11 AMENDMENT AND INTERPRETATION  
 OF THE CODE OF CONDUCT 13.40
APPENDIX 1 DEFINITIONS 13.41
APPENDIX 2 MINIMUM OVER RATE REQUIREMENTS,  
 CALCULATION, REPORTING AND  
 DISCIPLINARY PROCESS AND SANCTIONS 13.44
APPENDIX 3 MATCH FEES 13.47
APPENDIX 4 EXPEDITED PROCEDURE FOR  
 CODE OF CONDUCT OFFENCES  
 OCCURRING DURING AN ICC EVENT 13.48
13
ICC CODE OF CONDUCT  
FOR PLAYERS AND PLAYER 
SUPPORT PERSONNEL
ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL13
13.2
such other rules; and (b) nothing in such other rules shall be capable of 
removing, superseding or amending in any way the jurisdiction of the 
Match Referee, Judicial Commissioner or Appeal Panel to determine 
matters properly arising pursuant to the Code of Conduct. 
 1.5 For the avoidance of any doubt:
	 1.5.1	 all	Umpires	and	Match	Referees	officiating	in	any	International	
Matches are automatically bound by and required to comply 
with all of the provisions of the ICC Code of Conduct for Match 
Officials	and	Match	Official	Support	Personnel;	and
 1.5.2 where a representative side of a National Cricket Federation 
participates in an International Tour Match against a domestic or 
invitational team, for the purposes of their participation in such 
International Tour Match: 
 1.5.2.1 all Players and Player Support Personnel representing 
the National Cricket Federation’s representative side are 
automatically bound by, required to comply with, and 
shall submit themselves to the jurisdiction of this Code 
of Conduct; and 
 1.5.2.2 all players or player support personnel representing the 
domestic or invitational team shall not be bound by this 
Code of Conduct. Instead, such individuals will be bound 
by, required to comply with, and shall submit themselves 
to the jurisdiction of the relevant National Cricket 
Federation’s own applicable rules of conduct.
ARTICLE 2 – CODE OF CONDUCT OFFENCES 
The Preamble of the ICC Standard Test Match, ODI and T20I Playing Conditions, sets out 
the	definition	of	the	Spirit	of	Cricket,	as	follows:
“Preamble – The Spirit of Cricket
Cricket owes much of its appeal and enjoyment to the fact that it should be played not 
only according to the Laws (which are incorporated within these Playing Conditions),  
but also within the Spirit of Cricket.
The major responsibility for ensuring fair play rests with the captains, but extends to all 
players, umpires and, especially in junior cricket, teachers, coaches and parents.
Respect is central to the Spirit of Cricket.
Respect your captain, team-mates, opponents and the authority of the umpires.
Play hard and play fair.
Accept the umpire’s decision.
Create a positive atmosphere by your own conduct, and encourage others to do likewise.
Show self-discipline, even when things go against you.
Congratulate the opposition on their successes, and enjoy those of your own team.
Thank	the	officials	and	your	opposition	at	the	end	of	the	match,	whatever	the	result.
Cricket is an exciting game that encourages leadership, friendship and teamwork, which 
brings together people from different nationalities, cultures and religions, especially 
when played within the Spirit of Cricket.”ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13
13.3INTRODUCTION
The ICC is the international federation responsible for the global governance 
of the sport of cricket and the Code of Conduct for Players and Player Support 
Personnel (the “Code of Conduct”) is adopted and implemented as part of the ICC’s 
continuing efforts to maintain the public image, popularity and integrity of cricket 
by providing: (a) an effective means to deter any participant from conducting 
themselves	improperly	on	and	off	the	field-of-play	or	in	a	manner	that	is	contrary	
to the Spirit of Cricket; and (b) a robust and proportionate disciplinary procedure 
pursuant to which all matters of improper conduct can be dealt with fairly, with 
certainty and in an expeditious manner.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to Articles and Appendices are to articles 
and appendices of the Code of Conduct. Words in italicised text in the Code of 
Conduct	are	defined	terms	and	their	definitions	are	set	out	in	Appendix	1.
ARTICLE 1 – SCOPE AND APPLICATION 
 1.1 All Players and Player Support Personnel are automatically bound 
by and required to comply with all of the provisions of the Code of 
Conduct. Accordingly, by their participation (in the case of a Player) or 
assistance in a Player’s participation (in the case of a Player Support 
Personnel) in an International Match, such Players or Player Support 
Personnel shall be deemed to have agreed:
 1.1.1 that it is their personal responsibility to familiarise themselves 
with all of the requirements of the Code of Conduct, including 
what conduct constitutes an offence under the Code of Conduct; 
 1.1.2 to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of any Match Referee, 
Judicial Commissioner or Appeal Panel convened under the Code 
of Conduct to hear and determine charges brought (and any 
appeals in relation thereto) pursuant to the Code of Conduct; and
 1.1.3 not to bring any proceedings in any court or other forum that are 
inconsistent with the foregoing submission to the jurisdiction of 
the Match Referee, Judicial Commissioner or Appeal Panel. 
 1.2 All Players and Player Support Personnel shall continue to be bound by 
and required to comply with the Code of Conduct until he/she has not 
participated (in the case of a Player), or assisted a Player’s participation 
(in the case of a Player Support Personnel) in an International Match for a 
period of three (3) months from the date of his/her last participation and 
the ICC shall continue to have jurisdiction over him/her under the Code of 
Conduct thereafter in respect of matters taking place prior to that point. 
 1.3 Without prejudice to Articles 1.1 and 1.2, the ICC and the National Cricket 
Federations shall be responsible for promoting Code of Conduct awareness 
and education amongst all Players and Player Support Personnel.
 1.4 It is acknowledged that certain Players and Player Support Personnel 
may also be subject to other rules of National Cricket Federations 
that govern discipline and/or conduct, and that the same conduct 
of such Players and/or Player Support Personnel may implicate not 
only the Code of Conduct but also such other rules that may apply. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, Players and Player Support Personnel 
acknowledge and agree that: (a) the Code of Conduct is not intended to 
limit the responsibilities of any Player or Player Support Personnel under ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.4 13.52.1 EXCESSIVE APPEALING DURING AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH
Note: For	the	purpose	of	Article	2.1,	‘excessive’	may	include	(a)	repeated	appealing	
of the same decision; (b) repeated appealing of different decisions when the 
bowler/fielder	knows	the	batter	is	not	out	with	the	intention	of	placing	the	
Umpire under pressure; (c) charging or advancing towards the Umpire in an 
aggressive manner when appealing; or (d) celebrating a dismissal without 
appealing to the Umpire when a decision is required. It is not intended to 
prevent loud or enthusiastic appealing. 
Level 1 
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 Not applicable
2.2 ABUSE OF CRICKET EQUIPMENT OR CLOTHING, GROUND EQUIPMENT  
OR FIXTURES AND FITTINGS DURING AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH.
Note: Article 2.2 includes any action(s) outside the course of normal cricket actions, 
such as hitting or kicking the wickets and any action(s) which deliberately 
(i.e. intentionally), recklessly or negligently (in either case even if accidental) 
results in damage to the advertising boards, boundary fences, dressing room 
doors,	mirrors,	windows	and	other	fixtures	and	fittings.	For	example,	this	
offence may be committed, without limitation, when a Player swings his/her 
bat vigorously in frustration and causes damage to an advertising board.
Level 1 
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 Not applicable
2.3 USE OF AN AUDIBLE OBSCENITY DURING AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH.
Note: Article 2.3 covers the use of words commonly known and understood to be 
offensive, obscene and/or profane (in any language) and which can be heard 
by the spectators and/or the viewing public whether by way of the stump-
microphone or otherwise. This conduct may include, for example, swearing 
in frustration at one’s own play or fortune.
Level 1 
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 Not applicable
2.4 DISOBEYING AN UMPIRE’S INSTRUCTION DURING AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH
Note: Article 2.4 includes any repeated failure to comply with the instruction or 
directive of an Umpire during an International Match.
Level 1 
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 Not applicableThe conduct described in Articles 2.1 to 2.22 amounts to conduct which breaches 
the Spirit of Cricket and therefore, if committed by a Player or Player Support 
Personnel, shall amount to an offence by such Player or Player Support Personnel 
under the Code of Conduct.
COMMENT: Where considered helpful, guidance notes have been provided in text boxes 
beneath the description of a particular offence. Such notes are intended only to provide 
guidance as to the nature and examples of certain conduct that might be prohibited by a 
particular Article and should not be read as an exhaustive or limiting list of conduct that 
may be prohibited by such Article.
The Code of Conduct offences cover a variety of different behaviours and levels of 
seriousness. It is not intended to penalize trivial behavior. For the purpose of determining 
the appropriate sanction for an offence, levels of charging have been assigned for each 
offence, ranging from Level 1 for conduct of a minor nature, up to Level 4 for conduct of 
an extremely serious nature. Where an offence is alleged to have been committed, the 
individual reporting the alleged offence must determine which of the assigned levels of 
offence is appropriate for the conduct in question. Reports can only be laid at the levels 
identified	in	respect	of	each	particular	offence	below. 	
For the purposes of the Code of Conduct, the phrase “during an International Match” 
should be interpreted broadly to cover all conduct which takes place at the ground on 
the	day	of	an	International	Match,	and	not	just	conduct	which	takes	place	on	the	field	of 	
play.	It	will	therefore	include	conduct	which	takes	place	off	the	field	of	play,	for	example 	
in the changing rooms, or during any of the intervals in the match. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the ICC’s jurisdiction to take action against a Player or Player 
Support Personnel under this Code of Conduct is limited to incidents which take place 
(i) during, or in relation to, an International Match or (ii) during, or in relation to, an ICC 
Event. In circumstances where a Player or Player Support Personnel is involved in an 
off-field	incident	which	may	warrant	action	under	this	Code	of	Conduct	and	any	code	of 	
conduct or disciplinary rules of the Player or Player Support Personnel’s National Cricket 
Federation, the ICC will consult with the relevant National Cricket Federation in order 
to determine what the most appropriate course of action against the Player or Player 
Support Personnel should be. ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.6 13.72.7 PUBLIC CRITICISM OF, OR INAPPROPRIATE COMMENT IN RELATION TO  
AN INCIDENT OCCURRING IN AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH OR ANY PLAYER, 
PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL, MATCH OFFICIAL OR TEAM PARTICIPATING  
IN ANY INTERNATIONAL MATCH, IRRESPECTIVE OF WHEN SUCH CRITICISM  
OR INAPPROPRIATE COMMENT IS MADE.
Note: Without limitation, Players and Player Support Personnel will breach Article 
2.7	if	they	publicly	criticise	the	Match	Officials	or	denigrate	a	Player	or	team	
against which they have played in relation to incidents which occurred in an 
International Match. When assessing the seriousness of the breach, without 
limitation, the context within which the comments have been made and the 
gravity of the offending comments must be taken into account.
For the avoidance of doubt, any posting by a Player or Player Support Personnel 
of comments on a social media platform (including, without limitation, 
Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube and LinkedIn) shall be deemed to be 
‘public’	for	the	purposes	of	this	offence.	Consequently,	a	Player	or	Player	Support 	
Personnel may breach Article 2.7 where they criticise or make an inappropriate 
comment in relation to an incident occurring in an International Match or any 
Player,	Player	Support	Personnel,	Match	Official	or	team	participating	in	any 	
International Match in any posting they make on a social media platform.
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 Not applicable
2.8 SHOWING DISSENT AT AN UMPIRE’S DECISION DURING  
AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH.
Note: Without limitation, Article 2.8 includes: (a) excessive, obvious disappointment 
with an Umpire’s decision; (b) an obvious delay in resuming play or leaving the 
wicket; (c) shaking the head; (d) pointing or looking at the inside edge when 
given out lbw; (e) pointing to the pad or rubbing the shoulder when caught 
behind; (f) snatching the cap from the Umpire; (g) requesting a referral to the 
TV Umpire (other than in the context of a legitimate request for a referral as 
may be permitted in such International Match); and (h) arguing or entering 
into a prolonged discussion with the Umpire about his/her decision.
This offence is not intended to punish a batter showing his/her instinctive 
disappointment at his/her dismissal.
When assessing the seriousness of the breach, the following factors (without 
limitation) should be considered: (i) whether the conduct contains an element 
of anger or abuse which is directed at the Umpire or the Umpire’s decision; (ii) 
whether there is excessive delay in resuming play or leaving the wicket; or (iii) 
whether there is persistent re-reference to the incident over time.
It shall not be a defence to any charge brought under this Article to show 
that the Umpire might have, or in fact did, get any decision wrong.
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 Not applicable2.5 USING LANGUAGE, ACTIONS OR GESTURES WHICH DISPARAGE OR WHICH 
COULD PROVOKE AN AGGRESSIVE REACTION FROM A BATTER UPON HIS/HER 
DISMISSAL DURING AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH.
Note: Article 2.5 includes any language, action or gesture used by a Player and 
directed towards a batter upon his/her dismissal which has the potential to 
provoke an aggressive reaction from the dismissed batter, whether or not 
any reaction results, or which could be considered to disparage or demean 
the dismissed batter, regardless of whether the batter him/herself feels 
disparaged	or	demeaned	(in	other	words,	a	‘send-off’).	Without	limitation,	
Article 2.5 includes: (a) excessive celebration directed at and in close 
proximity to the dismissed batter; (b) verbally abusing the dismissed batter; 
and (c) pointing or gesturing towards the pavilion.
Nothing in this Article 2.5 is, however, intended to stop Players celebrating, 
in an appropriate fashion, the dismissal of the opposing team’s batter.
Level 1 
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 Not applicable
2.6 USING A GESTURE THAT IS OBSCENE, OFFENSIVE OR INSULTING DURING  
AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH.
Note: Article 2.6 includes, without limitation, obscene gestures which are not 
directed at another person. 
When assessing the seriousness of the breach, the following factors 
(without limitation) shall be taken into account: (i) the context of the 
particular situation; and (ii) whether the gesture is likely to: (a) be regarded 
as obscene; (b) give offence; or (c) insult another person.
This offence is not intended to cover any use of gestures that are likely to 
offend another person on the basis of their race, religion, gender, colour, 
descent, national or ethnic origin. Such conduct is prohibited under the ICC’s 
Anti-Racism Code and must be dealt with according to the procedures set 
out therein.
Level 1 
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 Not applicableICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.8 13.92.11 ANY ATTEMPT TO MANIPULATE AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH FOR 
INAPPROPRIATE STRATEGIC OR TACTICAL REASONS.
Note: Article 2.11 is intended to prevent the manipulation of International 
Matches for inappropriate strategic or tactical reasons (such as when a 
team deliberately loses a pool Match in an ICC Event in order to affect 
the standings of other teams in that ICC Event). It might also apply to the 
inappropriate manipulation of a net run rate or accumulation of bonus points 
or otherwise.
Article 2.11 is not intended to cover any corrupt or fraudulent acts (including 
any use of inside information and/or related betting activity). Such conduct 
is prohibited under the ICC’s Anti-Corruption Code and must be dealt with 
according to the procedures set out therein.
The Team Captain of any team guilty of such conduct shall be held 
responsible (and subject to sanction) for any offence found to have been 
committed under this Article.
Level 1 Not applicable.
Level 2 
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 Not applicable
2.12 INAPPROPRIATE PHYSICAL CONTACT WITH A PLAYER, PLAYER  
SUPPORT PERSONNEL, UMPIRE, MATCH REFEREE OR ANY OTHER PERSON 
(INCLUDING A SPECTATOR) DURING AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH. 
Note: Any form of inappropriate physical contact is prohibited in cricket. Without 
limitation, Players will breach this regulation if they deliberately, recklessly 
and/or negligently walk or run into or shoulder another Player or Umpire.
When assessing the seriousness of the breach, the following factors (without 
limitation) shall be taken into account: (i) the context of the particular 
situation, including, without limitation, whether the contact was deliberate 
(i.e. intentional), reckless, negligent, and/or avoidable; (ii) the force of the 
contact; (iii) any resulting injury to the person with whom contact was made; 
and (iv) the person with whom contact was made. 
Level 1   (Level 1 is available only in the case of contact with Players,  
Player Support Personnel or any other person).
Level 2   (Level 2 is available only in the case of contact with Players,  
Player Support Personnel or any other person).
Level 3   (Level 3 is available only in the case of contact with Umpires  
and Match Referees.)
Level 4  (Level 4 is available only in the case of contact with Umpires  
and Match Referees.)2.9 THROWING A BALL (OR ANY OTHER ITEM OF CRICKET EQUIPMENT SUCH AS A 
WATER BOTTLE) AT OR NEAR A PLAYER, PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL, UMPIRE, 
MATCH REFEREE OR ANY OTHER THIRD PERSON IN AN INAPPROPRIATE AND/OR 
DANGEROUS MANNER DURING AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH.
Note: This	offence	will	not	prohibit	a	fielder	or	bowler	from	returning	the	ball	to	
the stumps in the normal fashion, or from throwing the ball at the stumps or 
to a teammate when attempting a run out.
When assessing the seriousness of the offence, the following factors 
(without limitation) shall be taken into account: (i) the context of the 
particular situation, including, without limitation, whether the action was 
deliberate, reckless, negligent, and/or avoidable; (ii) whether the ball/object 
struck the other person; (iii) the speed at which the ball/object was thrown; 
and (iv) the distance from which the ball/object was thrown.
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 Not applicable
2.10 ANY OF THE FOLLOWING CONDUCT WHICH CONSTITUTES ‘UNFAIR PLAY’ UNDER 
CLAUSE 41 OF THE ICC STANDARD TEST, ODI AND T20I PLAYING CONDITIONS:
2.10.1 DELIBERATE ATTEMPT TO DISTRACT STRIKER.
2.10.2 DELIBERATE DISTRACTION, DECEPTION OR OBSTRUCTION OF BATTER
2.10.3 BOWLING OF DANGEROUS AND UNFAIR SHORT PITCHED DELIVERIES.
2.10.4 BOWLING OF DANGEROUS AND UNFAIR NON-PITCHING DELIVERIES.
2.10.5 BOWLING OF DELIBERATE NON-PITCHING DELIVERIES.
2.10.6 BOWLING OF DELIBERATE FRONT FOOT NO BALLS.
2.10.7 TIME WASTING BY ANY PLAYER OR TEAM.
2.10.8 FIELDER CAUSING DELIBERATE OR AVOIDABLE DAMAGE TO THE PITCH.
2.10.9 BOWLER RUNNING ON PROTECTED AREA.
2.10.10 BATTER CAUSING DELIBERATE OR AVOIDABLE DAMAGE TO THE PITCH.
2.10.11 STRIKER IN THE PROTECTED AREA.
2.10.12 BATTER STEALING A RUN.
2.10.13 UNFAIR ACTIONS NOT COVERED ELSEWHERE IN CLAUSE 41 OF THE  
 ICC STANDARD TEST MATCH, ODI AND T20I PLAYING CONDITIONS. 
Note: The offence supplements and does not replace ICC Standard Test Match, 
ODI and T20I Playing Conditions clauses 41.4 to 41.19.
When assessing the seriousness of the offence, the following factors 
(without limitation) shall be taken into account: (i) the context of the 
particular situation, including, without limitation and where relevant, 
whether the action was deliberate, reckless, negligent, and/or avoidable; 
(ii) the potential of the action to injure an opponent; and (iii) the degree of 
advantage	offered	by	the	‘unfair	play’.
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 Not applicableICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.10 13.112.15 ATTEMPTING TO GAIN AN UNFAIR ADVANTAGE DURING  
AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH
Note: Article 2.15 is intended to cover any attempts to cheat or gain an unfair 
advantage during an International Match (other than conduct prohibited 
under Articles 2.11 or 2.14 of the Code of Conduct or the ICC’s Anti-Corruption 
Code). It includes, without limitation: (a) deliberate attempts to deceive an 
Umpire (for example by claiming a catch when the Player concerned knew 
that he/she had not caught the ball cleanly); (b) any attempts by a Player on 
the	field	of	play	to	seek	assistance	from	any	person	off	the	field	of	play	in	
order to decide whether to request a referral to the TV Umpire; or (c) taking 
a	foreign	object	onto	the	field	whose	most	likely	reason	for	being	there	is	to	
change the condition of the ball.
When assessing the seriousness of the breach, consideration should be 
given to whether the conduct was deliberate, reckless and/or negligent on 
the part of the relevant Player or Player Support Personnel.
Level 1 Not applicable
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3 
Level 4 Not applicable
2.16 INTIMIDATION OF AN UMPIRE OR MATCH REFEREE WHETHER BY LANGUAGE  
OR CONDUCT (INCLUDING GESTURES) DURING AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH.
Note: Article 2.16 is intended to cover any form or intimidation of an Umpire or 
Match Referee. It includes, without limitation: (a) any form of continual 
verbal or physical harassment; (b) any form of intentional behavior that 
would cause the person at whom it is directed to fear injury or harm; and (c) 
attempts to impede or block movement.
Level 1 Not applicable
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3 
Level 4 Not applicable
2.17 THREAT OF ASSAULT ON ANOTHER PLAYER, PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL, 
UMPIRE OR MATCH REFEREE OR ANY OTHER PERSON (INCLUDING A SPECTATOR) 
DURING AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH.
Note: Without limitation, Players or Player Support Personnel will breach this Article 
2.17 if they do or say anything which would cause the Player, Player Support 
Personnel, Umpire, Match Referee or other person to whom such action 
was directed to fear harmful or offensive contact, for example and without 
limitation, threatening to hit the relevant individual while at the same time 
raising	a	fist,	or	threatening	to	physically	harm	another	Player’s	family.
Level 1 Not applicable
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3  (Level 3 is available in the case of threat of assault on anyone other than 
an Umpire or Match Referee)
Level 4 (Level 4 is available in the case of threat of assault on Umpires and Match 
Referees only. Not available in the case of threat of assault on any Player, 
Player Support Personnel or other person)2.13 PERSONAL ABUSE OF A PLAYER, PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL, UMPIRE OR 
MATCH REFEREE DURING AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH.
Note: Article 2.13 is intended to cover a Player or Player Support Personnel 
directing language of a personal, insulting, obscene and/or offensive nature 
at any Player, Player Support Personnel, Umpire or Match Referee during 
an International Match. It is also intended to cover language of a personal, 
insulting, obscene and/or offensive nature relating to a family member of 
the Player, Player Support Personnel, Umpire or Match Referee at whom it 
is directed.
When considering the seriousness of the breach, the following factors 
(without limitation) shall be considered: (i) whether such language was 
excessive and/or orchestrated; and (ii) the person at whom the language 
was directed, i.e. whether they were a Player, Player Support Personnel, 
Umpire, Match Referee or other person. 
This offence is not intended to cover any use of language that is likely to 
offend another person on the basis of their race, religion, gender, colour, 
descent, national or ethnic origin. Such conduct is prohibited under the ICC’s 
Anti-Racism Code and must be dealt with according to the procedures set 
out therein.
Level 1 Not applicable
Level 2  (Level 2 is not available in the case of personal abuse of an Umpire  
or Match Referee).
Level 3  (Level 3 is available in all cases)
Level 4 Not applicable
2.14 CHANGING THE CONDITION OF THE BALL IN BREACH OF CLAUSE 41.3  
OF THE ICC STANDARD TEST MATCH, ODI AND T20I PLAYING CONDITIONS.
Note: This offence supplements and does not replace ICC Standard Test Match, 
ODI and T20I Playing Conditions clause 41.3.
Any action(s) likely to alter the condition of the ball which are not 
specifically	permitted	under	clause	41.3.2	may	be	regarded	as	‘unfair’.	The	
following actions shall, therefore, not be permitted (this list of actions is not 
exhaustive but included for illustrative purposes): (a) deliberately throwing 
the ball into the ground for the purpose of roughening it up; (b) applying any 
artificial	substance	to	the	ball;	and	applying	any	non-artificial	substance	for	
any purpose other than to polish the ball; (c) lifting or otherwise interfering 
with any of the seams of the ball; and (d) scratching the surface of the ball 
with	finger	or	thumb	nails	or	any	implement.
The Umpires shall use their judgment to apply the principle that actions 
taken	to	maintain	or	enhance	the	condition	of	the	ball,	provided	no	artificial	
substances are used, shall be permitted. Any actions taken with the purpose 
of damaging the condition of the ball or accelerating the deterioration of the 
condition of the ball shall not be permitted.
Level 1 Not applicable
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3 
Level 4 Not applicableICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.12 13.132.21 CONDUCT THAT BRINGS THE GAME INTO DISREPUTE
Note: Article 2.21 is intended to cover all types of conduct that bring the game into 
disrepute	and	which	is	not	specifically	and	adequately	covered	by	the	specific 	
offences set out elsewhere in this Code of Conduct, including Article 2.20.
By way of example, Article 2.21 may (depending upon the seriousness and 
context of the breach) prohibit, without limitation, the following: (a) public 
acts of misconduct; (b) unruly public behaviour; and (c) inappropriate 
comments which are detrimental to the interests of the game.
When assessing the seriousness of the offence, the context of the particular 
situation, and whether it was deliberate, reckless, negligent, avoidable and/
or accidental, shall be considered. Further, the person lodging the Report shall 
determine where on the range of severity the conduct lays (with the range of 
severity starting at conduct of a minor nature (and hence a Level 1 offence) up 
to conduct of an extremely serious nature (and hence a Level 4 offence)). 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Level 4 
 2.22 Minimum Over Rate Offences: 
	 	 Failure	by	a	fielding	team	participating	in	an	International	Match	to	meet 	
the Minimum Over Rate requirements contained in Appendix 2 constitutes 
a “Minimum Over Rate Offence” under this Code of Conduct by each of 
the	Players	in	that	fielding	team.. 	
NOTE:	Subjective	intent	on	behalf	of	the	fielding	team,	or	any	member 	
thereof,	to	waste	time	is	not	required.	It	is	sufficient	to	establish	that 	
the Minimum Over Rate was not met. To avoid liability under this 
offence	the	fielding	team	would	need	to	establish,	on	the	balance 	
of probabilities, that the shortfall was due to factors beyond their 
control	and	that	the	time	allowances	permitted	by	the	Match	Officials 	
in	calculating	the	required	over	rate	were	not	sufficient.	The	presence 	
or absence of subjective intent and the extent of the shortfall shall be 
relevant in relation to the issue of penalty. 2.18 PHYSICAL ASSAULT OF ANOTHER PLAYER, PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL, 
UMPIRE, MATCH REFEREE OR ANY OTHER PERSON (INCLUDING A SPECTATOR) 
DURING AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH
Note: Without limitation, Players or Player Support Personnel will breach this 
Article 2.18 if they intentionally or recklessly cause the Player, Player 
Support Personnel, Umpire, Match Referee or the other person bodily  
harm or injury.
Level 1 Not applicable
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 
2.19 ANY ACT OF VIOLENCE ON THE FIELD OF PLAY DURING  
AN INTERNATIONAL MATCH
Note: Without limitation, Players or Player Support Personnel will breach this Article 
2.19	if	they	kick	or	punch	or	fight	another	Player,	Player	Support	Personnel, 	
Umpire, Match Referee or any other person (including a spectator).
Level 1 Not applicable
Level 2 Not applicable
Level 3 Not applicable
Level 4 
2.20 CONDUCT THAT IS CONTRARY TO THE SPIRIT OF THE GAME
Note: Article 2.20 is intended to cover all types of conduct that is contrary to the 
spirit	of	the	game	and	which	is	not	specifically	and	adequately	covered	by	
the	specific	offences	set	out	elsewhere	in	this	Code	of	Conduct.
By way of example, Article 2.20 may (depending upon the seriousness and 
context of the breach) prohibit, without limitation, the following: (a) the use 
of an illegal bat or illegal wicket-keeping gloves; and (b) failure to comply 
with the provisions of clause 6.3 of the ICC Standard Test Match, ODI and 
T20I Playing Conditions.
When assessing the seriousness of the offence, the context of the particular 
situation, and whether it was deliberate, reckless, negligent, avoidable and/
or accidental, shall be considered. Further, the person lodging the Report 
shall determine where on the range of severity the conduct lays (with the 
range of severity starting at conduct of a minor nature (and hence a Level 
1 offence) up to conduct of an extremely serious nature (and hence a Level 
4 offence)). 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Level 4 ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.14 13.15 3.2 All Reports must be completed on Form “Rep 1” (or such other form as 
may be made available for such purpose by the ICC from time to time). 
All Reports must be signed and dated by the person lodging the Report 
as follows:
 3.2.1 Where the Report is lodged by an Umpire (pursuant to Article 3.1.1):
LEVEL OF 
OFFENCEON OR 
OFF-FIELDREPORTING 
DEADLINEREPORT 
LODGED WITH
Levels  
1 & 2On Field 24 hours from close of day’s play in 
the relevant International MatchMatch Referee
Off-Field 48 hours after:
a) the commission of the alleged 
offence; or 
b) the alleged offence was 
brought to his/her attention, 
save that the Report cannot be 
lodged more than 7 days after 
the conclusion of the relevant 
International Match. 
Level 3 On or Off 
Field48 hours after:
a) the commission of the alleged 
offence; or 
b) the alleged offence was 
brought to his/her attention, 
save that the Report cannot be 
lodged more than 7 days after 
the conclusion of the relevant 
International Match.
Level 4 On or Off 
Field7 days after the conclusion of the 
relevant International MatchICC’s General 
CounselARTICLE 3 – REPORTING AN ALLEGED OFFENCE UNDER THE CODE 
OF CONDUCT 
NOTE: Where a Code of Conduct offence is alleged to have occurred during, or in 
relation	to	an	ICC	Event	(whether	on	the	field	of	play	or	otherwise),	the	Code	of	
Conduct shall apply in full, but with a series of amendments to the reporting process 
(Article 3), disciplinary procedure (Article 5) and appeal process (Article 8) in order to 
ensure that any matters arising can be dealt with expediently. Such amendments are 
described in detail in Appendix 4. 
Where a Minimum Over Rate Offence may have occurred, see Appendix 2 for the 
reporting process, disciplinary process and sanctions that are to be applied.
 3.1 Any one of the following individuals can report an alleged offence under 
the Code of Conduct (other than Minimum Over Rate Offences - as to 
which see Appendix 2) by lodging a report in the manner described in 
Article 3.2, below (a “Report”): 
	 3.1.1	 an	Umpire	that	officiated	in	the	International	Match	during	which	
the alleged offence was committed; 
 3.1.2 the CEO of either of the two National Cricket Federations 
whose representative teams participated in the International 
Match during, or in relation to which, the alleged offence was 
committed, or his/her designee (provided that the identity 
of such designee is advised to the ICC by the National Cricket 
Federation in advance of, or at least at the same time as, the 
Report is lodged); 
	 3.1.3	 the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer;	or
 3.1.4 provided it is a Level 4 Offence that is alleged to have been 
committed (or a Level 1 Offence, Level 2 Offence or Level 3 
Offence in relation to which the Match Referee was the victim 
of the alleged offence), the Match Referee that was appointed 
to	officiate	in	the	International	Match	during	which	the	alleged	
offence was committed. (For the avoidance of any doubt, the 
Match Referee is not entitled to lodge a Report in relation to an 
alleged Level 1 Offence, Level 2 Offence or Level 3 Offence unless 
he/she was the victim of the alleged offence). ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.16 13.17 3.2.4 Where the Report is lodged by the Match Referee  
(pursuant to Article 3.1.4):
LEVEL OF 
OFFENCEON OR 
OFF-FIELDREPORTING 
DEADLINEREPORT 
LODGED WITH
Levels  
1, 2 & 3On or  
Off Field48 hours after: 
a)  the commission of the alleged 
offence; or 
b)  the alleged offence was 
brought to his/her attention, 
save that the Report cannot be 
lodged more than 7 days after 
the conclusion of the relevant 
International MatchICC’s General 
Counsel
Level 4 On or  
Off Field7 days after conclusion of the 
relevant International Match
Note: For the purposes of Articles 3.2.1 to 3.2.4 above, Reports should be 
lodged as soon as reasonably practicable. The time limits set out in the 
above tables constitute the latest time by which a Report can be lodged.
In all circumstances where a Report is to be lodged with the Match 
Referee if, for logistical reasons, it is impractical to lodge the Report with 
the Match Referee, it shall be lodged with the ICC’s Cricket Operations 
Department within the same deadline.
 3.3 Where it is alleged that a Player or Player Support Personnel has 
committed more than one offence under the Code of Conduct during, 
or in relation to an International Match or during, or in relation to an ICC 
Event	(whether	on	the	field	of	play	or	otherwise),	whether	arising	out	
of the same set of facts or otherwise, then a separate Report should be 
filed	in	accordance	with	this	Article	3	for	each	of	the	offences	that	are	
alleged to have been committed.
NOTE: For the avoidance of doubt, only one Report should be laid per 
offence. As such, where the incident in question could fall within more 
than one offence under Article 2, for example Article 2.7 (public criticism or 
inappropriate comment) and Article 2.21 (conduct that brings the game into 
disrepute) a Report should be laid only in respect of the offence which most 
specifically	covers	the	relevant	conduct	(in	the	example	above,	Article	2.7)	and 	
not both offences.  3.2.2 Where the Report is lodged by the CEO of either of the two 
National Cricket Federations (pursuant to Article 3.1.2);
LEVEL OF 
OFFENCEON OR 
OFF-FIELDREPORTING 
DEADLINEREPORT 
LODGED WITH
Levels 
1 & 2On Field 48 hours from close of  
day’s play in the relevant 
International MatchMatch Referee
Off-Field 96 hours after: 
a)  the commission of the alleged 
offence; or 
b)  the alleged offence was 
brought to his/her attention, 
save that the Report cannot be 
lodged more than 7 days after 
the conclusion of the relevant 
International Match. 
Level 3 On or  
Off Field96 hours after: 
a)  the commission of the alleged 
offence; or 
b)  the alleged offence was 
brought to his/her attention, 
save that the Report cannot be 
lodged more than 7 days after 
the conclusion of the relevant 
International Match. 
Level 4 On or  
Off Field7 days after conclusion of the 
relevant International MatchICC’s General 
Counsel
	 3.2.3	 Where	the	Report	is	lodged	by	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer	
(pursuant to Article 3.1.3):
LEVEL OF 
OFFENCEON OR 
OFF-FIELDREPORTING 
DEADLINEREPORT 
LODGED WITH
Levels  
1, 2 & 3On or  
Off Field7 days after the alleged offence is 
brought to his/her attention.Match Referee
Level 4 On or  
Off Field7 days after the alleged offence is 
brought to his/her attention.ICC’s General 
CounselICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.18 13.19 4.3.2  he/she may admit the offence charged but dispute the proposed 
sanction	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge,	in	which	case	the 	
matter shall proceed to a hearing in accordance with Article 5.1; or
 4.3.3 he/she may deny the offence charged, in which case the matter 
shall proceed to a hearing in accordance with Article 5.1. 
 Level 4 Offences:
 4.4 Where the ICC’s General Counsel receives a Report lodged under Articles 
3.2.1., 3.2.2., 3.2.3 or 3.2.4, he/she must promptly conduct a review to 
determine whether the Player or Player Support Personnel named in the 
Report	has	a	case	to	answer	in	relation	to	the	specific	type	and/or	level 	
of	offence	identified	in	the	Report	(i.e.	to	determine,	in	the	ICC’s	opinion, 	
whether	the	specific	type	and	level	of	offence	noted	in	the	Report	is 	
properly	identified	when	reviewed	against	the	conduct	complained	of). 	
 4.5 If the initial review of the Report reveals that there is no case to answer 
in	relation	to	the	specific	type	and/or	level	of	offence,	then	the	ICC	shall 	
notify	the	person	who	filed	the	Report	of	that	fact,	advising	them	of	the 	
reasons that such a determination has been made and, where applicable, 
providing	guidance	on	which	specific	type	and	level	of	offence	the	ICC 	
considers to be appropriate. Upon receipt of such a decision, the person 
who	filed	the	Report	shall,	notwithstanding	the	provisions	of	Article	3.2 	
and having considered the ICC’s guidance in good faith, within a period of 
twenty-four	(24)	hours	from	the	time	of	notification	by	the	ICC,	notify	the 	
ICC	whether	he/she	wishes	to:	(a)	revise	the	specific	type	and/or	level	of 	
the offence charged, in which case a revised Report must be lodged with 
the ICC within such twenty-four (24) period; (b) proceed on the basis of 
the original Report lodged; or (c) withdraw the Report. 
 4.6 If the initial review of the Report reveals that there is a case to answer, 
or a revised Report is lodged with the ICC pursuant to Article 4.5, then 
the ICC shall promptly provide a copy of the Report, together with a 
completed	Form	“Not	1”	(such	documents	comprising	the	‘Notice of 
Charge’) to the following individuals: 
 4.6.1 the Player or Player Support Personnel named in the Report; and
 4.6.2 the Team Manager of the relevant Player or Player Support 
Personnel named in the Report; and
 4.6.3 the CEO of the National Cricket Federation to which the relevant 
Player	or	Player	Support	Personnel	is	affiliated.	
 4.7 The Notice of Charge shall specify that the Player or Player Support 
Personnel shall have the following options: 
 4.7.1 he/she may admit the offence charged and accede to the 
proposed	sanction	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge	(which 	
sanction shall be strictly at the ICC’s discretion, but at all times 
within the appropriate range for the level of offence). In such 
circumstances, and provided that such admission has been 
received by the ICC’s General Counsel prior to the commencement 
of	the	hearing	at	the	time/place	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge, 	
the hearing before the Judicial Commissioner shall not be required 
and no further action shall be taken, save that the ICC shall 
promptly	issue	a	public	statement	confirming:	(a)	the	commission 	
of an offence under the Code of Conduct; and (b) the imposition of 
the	applicable	sanction	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge;	orARTICLE 4 – NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE 
 Level 1 Offences, Level 2 Offences, Level 3 Offences 
and Minimum Over Rate Offences:
 4.1 Where a Match Referee receives a Report lodged under Articles 
3.2.1, 3.2.2, 3.2.3, or Article 3.2 of Appendix 2 (in the case of Minimum 
Over Rate Offences), he/she must review the Report and determine 
whether the Player or Player Support Personnel named in the Report 
has	a	case	to	answer	in	relation	to	the	offence	identified	in	the	Report. 	
Where the Match Referee determines that there is a case to answer, 
he/she must promptly provide a copy of the Report, together with a 
completed	Form	“Not	1”,	(such	documents	comprising	the	‘Notice of 
Charge’), to the following individuals: 
 4.1.1 the Player or Player Support Personnel named in the Report, or, 
where appropriate in the case of an offence under either Article 
2.11 (manipulating an International Match), 2.14 (changing the 
condition of the ball), or 2.22 (failure to meet the Minimum Over 
Rate), the relevant Team Captain; and
 4.1.2 the Team Manager of the relevant Player or Player Support 
Personnel named in the Report.
 4.2 Where the ICC’s General Counsel receives a Report lodged under 
Article 3.2.4, he/she must review the Report and determine whether 
the Player or Player Support Personnel named in the Report has a case 
to	answer	in	relation	to	the	offence	identified	in	the	Report.	Where 	
the ICC’s General Counsel determines that there is a case to answer, 
he/she must promptly provide a copy of the Report, together with a 
completed	Form	“Not	1”	(such	documents	comprising	the	‘Notice of 
Charge’), to the following individuals:
 4.2.1 the Player or Player Support Personnel named in the Report, or, 
where appropriate in the case of an offence under either Article 
2.11 (manipulating an International Match), 2.14 (changing the 
condition of the ball), or 2.22 (failure to meet the Minimum Over 
Rate), the relevant Team Captain; and
 4.2.2 the Team Manager of the relevant Player or Player Support 
Personnel named in the Report.
 4.3 The Notice of Charge shall specify that the Player or Player Support 
Personnel shall have the following three options:
 4.3.1 he/she may admit the offence charged and accede to the 
proposed	sanction	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge	(which	
sanction shall be strictly at the Match Referee’s discretion, but at 
all times within the appropriate range for the level of offence). In 
such circumstances, and provided that such admission has been 
received by the Match Referee prior to the commencement of 
the	hearing	at	the	time/place	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge,	
the hearing before the Match Referee shall not be required and 
no further action shall be taken, save that the ICC shall promptly 
issue	a	public	statement	confirming:	(a)	the	commission	of	an	
offence under the Code of Conduct; and (b) the imposition of the 
applicable	sanction	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge;	orICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.20 13.21 5.1.5 Unless exceptional circumstances apply, each of the following 
individuals must attend any hearing before the Match Referee: 
(a) the Player or Player Support Personnel who has been charged 
with the alleged offence; and (b) the person who lodged the 
Report	(or,	in	the	case	of	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer,	his/
her representative/nominee). Where any such individual has a 
compelling	justification	for	his/her	non-attendance,	then	they	
shall be given the opportunity to participate in the hearing 
before the Match Referee by telephone or video conference 
(if available). Without prejudice to the Player or Player Support 
Personnel’s ability to call and to question such witnesses as may 
be necessary and/or to be represented by such other person 
of his/her own choosing pursuant to Article 5.1.6, one of the 
Team Captain, Team Vice-Captain or Team Manager of the team 
that the Player or Player Support Personnel represents may 
also attend such a hearing to provide additional support and 
assistance to the Player or Player Support Personnel. 
 5.1.6 Each of the individuals described in Article 5.1.5(a) and (b) shall 
have the right (at his/her or its own expense) to be represented 
at the hearing before the Match Referee by such representative 
(including legal counsel) of his/her or its own choosing. Where 
the	person	lodging	the	Report	is	an	Umpire	that	officiated	in	
the International Match in question or the ICC’s Chief Executive 
Officer,	then	such	person	shall	be	entitled	to	be	represented	prior	
to, and during, the hearing (if he/she considers necessary) by a 
representative of the ICC’s Legal Department. 
 5.1.7 The non-attendance of any Player or Player Support Personnel or 
his/her representative at the hearing, shall not prevent the Match 
Referee from proceeding with the hearing in his/her absence and 
issuing a ruling in relation to the offence charged. 
 5.1.8  At the end of a hearing, where the Match Referee considers that 
further evidence is necessary or further time is required to consider 
the evidence that has been presented, he/she shall adjourn the 
hearing for an appropriate period of time and make such directions 
as may be necessary. 
 5.1.9 Alternatively, at the end of a hearing: 
 5.1.9.1 brought under Article 4.3.2: 
 (a) as soon as possible after the conclusion of the 
hearing (and, in any event, no later than twenty-four 
(24)	hours	thereafter),	the	Match	Referee	will	confirm 	
the Player or Player Support Personnel’s admission 
that he/she had committed a Code of Conduct 
offence and announce the substance of his/her 
decision.	Within	five	(5)	days	after	the	conclusion	of 	
the hearing, the Match Referee shall issue his/her 
written decision, with reasons, setting out: (a) what 
sanctions, if any, are to be imposed (including any 
fine	and/or	period	of	suspension);	(b)	the	date	that 	
any period of suspension shall come into force and 
effect; and (c) any rights of appeal that may exist 
pursuant to Article 8. 4.7.2  he/she may admit the offence charged but dispute the proposed 
sanction	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge,	in	which	case	the 	
matter shall proceed to a hearing in accordance with Article 5.2; or
 4.7.3 he/she may deny the offence charged, in which case the matter 
shall proceed to a hearing in accordance with Article 5.2.
ARTICLE 5 – THE DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
NOTE: Where a Match Referee appointed to adjudicate any matter brought under 
this Code of Conduct is not physically present at the relevant International Match 
(and therefore required to perform his/her duties remotely) or his/her appointment 
to that series of International Matches has ended and thus he/she is no longer in the 
same location at the teams, then all hearings arising under Article 5.1 will be held by 
telephone conference or video conference (if available) and the provisions of Article 5.1 
are to be interpreted accordingly. 
 Level 1 Offences, Level 2 Offences, Level 3 Offences and Minimum  
Over Rate Offences:
 5.1 Where a matter proceeds to a hearing under Article 4.3.2 or 4.3.3, then, 
subject to Article 5.7 below, the case shall be referred to the Match 
Referee for adjudication in accordance with the following procedure: 
 5.1.1 In the case of Level 1 Offences, Level 2 Offences, Level 3 Offences 
or Minimum Over Rate Offences, subject to the discretion of the 
Match Referee to order otherwise for good cause shown by the 
Player or Player Support Personnel, the hearing will take place 
at	the	time	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge	(which	should	take 	
place as soon as practicable and, in the absence of exceptional 
circumstances, no more than thirty-six (36) hours after the receipt 
by the Player or Player Support Personnel of the Notice of Charge) 
and, subject to the note to Article 5, in the country in which the 
alleged offence was committed. For the avoidance of doubt, 
nothing in this Article 5.1.1 prevents a hearing from being convened 
at a time during which the International Match in relation to which 
the alleged offence took place, remains in progress. 
 5.1.2 The procedure followed at the hearing shall be at the discretion 
of the Match Referee, provided that the hearing is conducted in 
a manner which offers the Player or Player Support Personnel a 
fair and reasonable opportunity to present evidence (including 
the right to call and to question witnesses by telephone or 
video-conference where necessary), address the Match Referee 
and present his/her case. 
 5.1.3 The hearing before the Match Referee shall be in English, and 
certified	English	translations	shall	be	submitted	of	any	non-English 	
documents put before the Match Referee. The cost of the 
translation shall be borne by the party offering the document(s). 
 5.1.4 Where video evidence of the alleged offence is available at the 
hearing before the Match Referee, then it may be relied upon by 
any party, provided that all other parties shall have the right to 
make	such	representations	in	relation	to	it	that	they	may	see	fit.	ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.22 13.23 5.2.2  The Judicial Commissioner shall convene a preliminary hearing 
with the individual lodging the Report pursuant to Article 3.1 (the 
Complainant) and his/her legal representatives (if any), together 
with the Player or Player Support Personnel and his/her legal 
representatives (if any). The preliminary hearing should take place 
as soon as possible by telephone conference call unless the Judicial 
Commissioner determines otherwise. The non-participation, 
without	compelling	justification,	of	the	Player	or	Player	Support 	
Personnel or his/her representative at the preliminary hearing, 
after proper notice of the preliminary hearing has been provided, 
shall not prevent the Judicial Commissioner from proceeding with 
the preliminary hearing, whether or not any written submissions 
are made on behalf of the Player or Player Support Personnel. 
Where the initial Report was lodged by someone other than the 
individual	described	in	Article	3.1.3,	the	ICC	will	be	notified	and 	
invited to participate in any such preliminary hearing convened by 
the Judicial Commissioner through its representative. 
 5.2.3 The purpose of the preliminary hearing shall be to allow the 
Judicial Commissioner to address any preliminary issues that need 
to be resolved prior to the hearing date. In particular (but without 
limitation), the Judicial Commissioner shall:
 5.2.3.1  determine the date(s) upon which the full hearing shall be 
held. Save in exceptional circumstances or where the parties 
otherwise agree, the full hearing should take place no longer 
than fourteen (14) days after the receipt by the Player or 
Player Support Personnel of the Notice of Charge. 
 5.2.3.2 establish dates reasonably in advance of the date of the 
full hearing by which:
 (a) the Complainant shall submit an opening brief with 
argument on all issues that the Complainant wishes 
to raise at the hearing and a list of the witnesses 
that the Complainant intends to call at the hearing 
(and a summary of the subject areas of the witness’s 
anticipated testimony), and enclosing copies of the 
exhibits that the Complainant intends to introduce at 
the hearing;
 (b) the Player or Player Support Personnel shall submit 
an answering brief, addressing the Complainant’s 
arguments and setting out argument on the issues 
that he/she wishes to raise at the hearing, as well 
as a list of the witnesses that he/she intends to 
call at the hearing (and a summary of the subject 
areas of the witness’s anticipated testimony), and 
enclosing copies of the exhibits that he/she intends 
to introduce at the hearing; and
 (c) the Complainant may (at its discretion) submit a reply 
brief, responding to the answer brief of the Player 
or Player Support Personnel and listing any rebuttal 
witnesses that the Complainant intends to call at 
the hearing (and a summary of the subject areas of 
the witness’s anticipated testimony), and enclosing 
copies of any other exhibits that the Complainant 
intends to introduce at the hearing; and  5.1.9.2 brought under Article 4.3.3 (or where the Player or Player 
Support Personnel has failed to respond in a timely 
fashion to the Notice of Charge): 
 (a) the Match Referee shall adjourn the hearing (for a 
period of no less than ten (10) minutes and no more 
than twenty-four (24) hours), following which he/she 
will reconvene the hearing and verbally announce 
his/her	finding	as	to	whether	a	Code	of	Conduct 	
offence has been committed;
 (b) where the Match Referee determines that a Code 
of Conduct offence has been committed, the Player 
or Player Support Personnel may request a short 
adjournment (of no more than thirty (30) minutes) 
to prepare any submissions that he/she might wish 
to make in relation to the appropriate sanction that 
ought to be applied; and 
 (c) as soon as possible after the conclusion of the 
hearing (and, in any event, no later than twenty-four 
(24) hours thereafter), the Match Referee will 
announce the substance of his/her decision. Within 
five	(5)	days	after	the	conclusion	of	the	hearing, 	
the Match Referee shall issue his/her written 
decision,	with	reasons,	setting	out:	(a)	the	finding 	
as to whether a Code of Conduct offence had 
been committed; (b) what sanctions, if any, are 
to	be	imposed	(including	any	fine	and/or	period 	
of suspension); (c) the date that any period of 
suspension shall come into force and effect; and 
(d) any rights of appeal that may exist pursuant to 
Article 8.
 5.1.10 A copy of the written reasoned decision will be provided to 
the Player or Player Support Personnel, the CEO of the Player or 
Player Support Personnel’s National Cricket Federation, and the 
ICC’s Cricket Operations Manager.
 5.1.11 Subject only to the rights of appeal under Article 8, the Match 
Referee’s	decision	shall	be	the	full,	final	and	complete	disposition	
of the matter and will be binding on all parties.
 Level 4 Offences:
 5.2 Where a matter proceeds to a hearing under Article 4.7.2 or 4.7.3, then 
the case shall be referred to a Judicial Commissioner for adjudication in 
accordance with the following procedure:
 5.2.1 As soon as reasonably possible, the ICC shall appoint one 
member from the ICC’s Code of Conduct Commission to sit as 
the Judicial Commissioner to hear the case sitting alone. The 
appointed member shall be independent of the parties, have 
had no prior involvement with the case and shall not, unless 
otherwise agreed between the parties, be from a country 
participating in the International Match, during, or in relation to 
which, the alleged offence was committed. ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.24 13.25 5.2.9 Each of the individuals described in Article 5.2.8(a) and (b) shall 
have the right (at his/her or its own expense) to be represented 
at the hearing before the Judicial Commissioner by such 
representative (including legal counsel) of his/her or its own 
choosing. Where the Complainant is an Umpire or Match Referee 
that	officiated	in	the	International	Match	in	question	or	the	ICC’s	
Chief	Executive	Officer,	then	such	person	shall	be	entitled	to	be	
represented prior to, and during, the hearing (if he/she considers 
necessary) by a representative of the ICC’s Legal Department. 
 5.2.10 The non-attendance of the Player or Player Support Personnel 
or his/her representative at the hearing, after proper notice of 
the hearing has been provided, shall not prevent the Judicial 
Commissioner from proceeding with the hearing in his/her 
absence, whether or not any written submissions are made on 
his/her behalf.
 5.2.11 At the end of a hearing, where the Judicial Commissioner 
considers that further evidence is necessary or further time is 
required to consider the evidence that has been presented, he/
she shall adjourn the hearing for an appropriate period of time 
and make such directions as may be necessary. 
 5.2.12 Alternatively, at the end of a hearing: 
 5.2.12.1 brought under Article 4.7.2: 
 (a) as soon as possible after the conclusion of the hearing 
(and, in any event, no later than forty-eight (48) hours 
thereafter),	the	Judicial	Commissioner	will	confirm	the 	
Player or Player Support Personnel’s admission that he/
she had committed a Code of Conduct offence and 
announce the substance of his/her decision. Within 
seven (7) days after conclusion of the hearing, the 
Judicial Commissioner shall announce his/her written 
decision, with reasons, setting out: (a) what sanctions, 
if	any,	are	to	be	imposed	(including	any	fine	and/or 	
period of suspension); (b) the date that any period of 
suspension shall come into force and effect; and (c) any 
rights of appeal that may exist pursuant to Article 8.
  5.2.12.2 brought under Article 4.7.3 (or where the Player or Player 
Support Personnel has failed to respond in a timely 
fashion to the Notice of Charge): 
 (a) the Judicial Commissioner shall adjourn the hearing 
(for a period of no less than ten (10) minutes and no 
more than twenty-four (24) hours), following which 
he/she will reconvene the hearing and verbally 
announce	his/her	finding	as	to	whether	a	Code	of 	
Conduct offence has been committed;
 (b) where the Judicial Commissioner determines that 
a Code of Conduct offence has been committed, 
the Player or Player Support Personnel may request 
a short adjournment (of no more than thirty (30) 
minutes) to prepare any submissions that he/she 
might wish to make in relation to the appropriate 
sanction that ought to be applied; and  5.2.3.3 make such order as the Judicial Commissioner shall deem 
appropriate in relation to the production of relevant 
documents and/or other materials between the parties.
 5.2.4 Subject to the discretion of the Judicial Commissioner to order 
otherwise for good cause shown by either party, or if otherwise 
agreed between the parties, hearings before the Judicial 
Commissioner shall take place in the country in which the alleged 
offence was committed. 
 5.2.5 The procedure followed at the hearing shall be at the discretion 
of the Judicial Commissioner, provided that the hearing is 
conducted in a manner which offers the Player or Player 
Support Personnel a fair and reasonable opportunity to present 
evidence (including the right to call and to question witnesses 
by telephone or video-conference where necessary), address the 
Judicial Commissioner and present his/her case. 
 5.2.6 The hearing before the Judicial Commissioner shall be in English, 
and	certified	English	translations	shall	be	submitted	of	any	
non-English documents put before the Judicial Commissioner. 
The cost of the translation shall be borne by the party offering 
the document(s). If required by the Judicial Commissioner (at 
his/her discretion), the ICC shall make arrangements to have 
the hearing recorded or transcribed. If requested by the Player 
or Player Support Personnel, the ICC shall also arrange for an 
interpreter to attend the hearing. Such costs of transcription and 
interpretation shall be paid by the ICC. 
 5.2.7 Where video evidence of the alleged offence is available at the 
hearing before the Judicial Commissioner, then it may be relied 
upon by any party, provided that all other parties shall have the 
right to make such representations in relation to it that they may 
see	fit.	
 5.2.8 Unless exceptional circumstances apply, each of the following 
individuals must attend any hearing before the Judicial 
Commissioner: (a) the Player or Player Support Personnel 
who has been charged with the alleged offence; and (b) the 
Complainant	(or,	in	the	case	of	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer,	
his/her representative/nominee). Where any such individual has 
a	compelling	justification	for	his/her	non-attendance,	then	they	
shall be given the opportunity to participate in the hearing before 
the Judicial Commissioner by telephone or video conference 
(if available). In addition, a representative of the ICC’s legal 
department shall be entitled to attend any such hearing. Without 
prejudice to the Player or Player Support Personnel’s ability to 
call and to question such witnesses as may be necessary and/or 
to be represented by such other person of his/her own choosing 
pursuant to Article 5.2.9, one of the Team Captain, Team Vice-
Captain or Team Manager of the team that the Player or Player 
Support Personnel represents may also attend such hearing to 
provide additional support and assistance to the Player or Player 
Support Personnel. ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.26 13.27 5.5 Where a Player or Player Support Personnel is alleged to have committed 
more than one breach of the Code of Conduct during, or in relation to 
the same International Match, then all of the alleged offences may be 
dealt with at the same hearing, as follows: 
 5.5.1 any number of Level 1 Offences and/or Level 2 Offences and/or 
Level 3 Offences can all be determined by a Match Referee at the 
same hearing; and
 5.5.2 any number of Level 4 Offences can all be determined by a 
Judicial Commissioner at the same hearing; and
 5.5.3 a Level 1 Offence and/or Level 2 Offence and/or Level 3 Offence 
can be determined by a Judicial Commissioner at the same 
hearing as a Level 4 Offence; but
 5.5.3 a Level 4 Offence cannot be determined by a Match Referee at 
the same hearing as a Level 1 Offence or a Level 2 Offence or a 
Level 3 Offence, and separate proceedings should therefore be 
issued in relation to each alleged offence. 
 5.6 Any failure or refusal by any Player or Player Support Personnel to provide 
assistance to a Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner in connection 
with any charge made pursuant to this Code of Conduct may constitute 
a separate offence (depending upon the seriousness and context of such 
failure or refusal) under Article 2.20 of the Code of Conduct. 
 5.7 Where a Match Referee lodges a Report with the ICC’s General Counsel 
pursuant to Article 3.2, and, pursuant to Article 4.2, the ICC’s General 
Counsel determines that there is a case to answer, he/she shall appoint 
a member of the ICC’s Code of Conduct Commission (who shall have 
had no prior involvement with the case and shall not, unless otherwise 
agreed between the parties, be from a country participating in the 
International Match during, or in relation to which, the alleged offence 
was committed) to hear the case as a replacement to the Match Referee 
and all of the remaining procedure will apply accordingly. 
 5.8 In addition to, and notwithstanding, Article 5.7 above, where a Match 
Referee is, or becomes, unwilling or unable to hear a case (for example, 
where	he/she	finds	him/herself	in	a	position	of	conflict),	then	the	ICC’s	
General Counsel shall have the discretion to appoint the ICC’s Chief 
Referee or such other referee as the ICC deems to be appropriate in all 
the circumstances. Where the ICC’s Chief Referee (or such other referee) 
is unwilling or unable to hear the case, a member of the ICC’s Code of 
Conduct Commission (who shall have had no prior involvement with the 
case and shall not, unless otherwise agreed between the parties, be from 
a country participating in the International Match during, or in relation 
to which, the alleged offence was committed) as a replacement to the 
Match Referee and all of the remaining procedure will apply accordingly. 
 5.9 Where a Judicial Commissioner is, or becomes unwilling or unable to 
hear	a	case	(for	example,	where	he/she	finds	him/herself	in	a	position	
of	conflict),	then	the	ICC’s	General	Counsel	shall	have	the	discretion	to	
appoint another member of the ICC’s Code of Conduct Commission (who 
shall have had no prior involvement with the case and shall not, unless 
otherwise agreed between the parties, be from a country participating 
in the International Match during, or in relation to which, the alleged 
offence was committed) as a replacement to the Judicial Commissioner 
and all of the remaining procedure will apply accordingly.  (c) as soon as possible after the conclusion of the hearing 
(and, in any event, no later than forty-eight (48) hours 
thereafter), the Judicial Commissioner will announce 
the substance of his/her decision. Within seven (7) 
days after conclusion of the hearing, the Judicial 
Commissioner shall announce his/her written decision, 
with	reasons,	setting	out:	(a)	the	finding	as	to	whether 	
a Code of Conduct offence had been committed; (b) 
what sanctions, if any, are to be imposed (including 
any	fine	and/or	period	of	suspension);	(c)	the	date 	
that any period of suspension shall come into force 
and effect; and (d) any rights of appeal that may exist 
pursuant to Article 8.
 5.2.13 A copy of the written reasoned decision will be provided to 
the Player or Player Support Personnel, the CEO of the Player 
or Player Support Personnel’s National Cricket Federation, the 
Complainant and the ICC’s Cricket Operations Manager.
 5.2.14 Subject only to the rights of appeal under Article 8, the Judicial 
Commissioner’s	decision	shall	be	the	full,	final	and	complete	
disposition of the matter and will be binding on all parties.
 General Principles of Procedure
 5.3	 Where	a	Report	is	filed	by	more	than	one	of	the	individuals	described 	
in Article 3.1 in relation to the same alleged offence under the Code of 
Conduct, then the Player or Player Support Personnel alleged to have 
committed the offence will only be served with one Notice of Charge 
in accordance with the procedures set out in Article 4. However, all 
persons	who	filed	a	Report	(or,	in	the	case	of	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive 	
Officer,	his/her	representative/nominee)	in	relation	to	the	alleged 	
offence are required to attend the hearing before the Match Referee or 
Judicial	Commissioner	unless	there	is	a	compelling	justification	for	his/
her non-attendance, in which case they shall be given the opportunity to 
participate in the hearing by telephone or video conference (if available). 
 5.4 Where two or more Players or Player Support Personnel are alleged to 
have committed offences under the Code of Conduct, they may both 
be dealt with at the same hearing where the proceedings arise out of 
the same incident or set of facts, or where there is a clear link between 
separate incidents, as follows:
 5.4.1 any number of Level 1 Offences and/or Level 2 Offences and/or 
Level 3 Offences can all be determined by a Match Referee at the 
same hearing; and
 5.4.2 any number of Level 4 Offences can all be determined by a 
Judicial Commissioner at the same hearing; and
 5.4.3 a Level 1 Offence and/or Level 2 Offence and/or Level 3 Offence 
can be determined by a Judicial Commissioner at the same 
hearing as a Level 4 Offence; but
 5.4.3 a Level 4 Offence cannot be determined by a Match Referee at 
the same hearing as a Level 1 Offence or a Level 2 Offence or a 
Level 3 Offence, and separate proceedings should therefore be 
issued in relation to each alleged offence. ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.28 13.29 7.2 In determining the appropriate sanction, the Match Referee or Judicial 
Commissioner shall take into account any factors that he/she deems 
relevant and appropriate to the mitigation or aggravation of the nature 
of the Code of Conduct offence before determining, in accordance with 
the table set out in Article 7.3 below, what the appropriate sanction(s) 
should be. 
 7.3 In addition to sanctions imposed by a Match Referee or Judicial 
Commissioner under Article 7.2 above, Demerit Points will be imposed 
upon a Player or Player Support Personnel found to have committed 
an offence under the Code of Conduct. The number of Demerit Points 
imposed will be calculated by reference to the sanction imposed for the 
particular offences, as set out in the following table.
LEVEL OF 
OFFENCERANGE OF  
PERMISSIBLE SANCTIONSCORRESPONDING  
DEMERIT POINTS
Level 1 Warning and/or the imposition of a 
fine	of	up	to	50%	of	the	applicable	
Match Fee.Warning	or	0-25%	fine 1
26-50%	fine 2
Level 2 The	imposition	of	a	fine	of	 
between 50-100% of the applicable 
Match Fee or up to two (2) 
Suspension Points. 50-100%	fine	or	1	
Suspension Point3
2 Suspension Points 4
Level 3 The imposition of between four (4) 
and	twelve	(12)	Suspension	Points.*4-7 Suspension Points 5
8-12 Suspension Points 6
Level 4 The imposition of twelve (12) 
Suspension Points or a suspension 
for	a	fixed	period	of	time	ranging	
between, at a minimum, the lesser 
of the equivalent of twelve (12) 
Suspension Points and one (1) year, 
up to a maximum of a lifetime’s 
suspension.12 Suspension Points 7
Fixed period of 
suspension between 
12 Suspension Points 
or one (1) year, and a 
lifetime suspension8
Minimum 
Over Rate 
OffencesSee	specific	sanctions	described	in	
the table at Article 4 of Appendix 2.N/A
  Demerit Points will remain on a Player or Player Support Personnel’s 
disciplinary record for a period of twenty-four (24) months from their 
imposition following which they shall be immediately expunged. 
  *NOTE:	In	all	cases	marked	with	a	*,	the	maximum	‘actual’	period	of	
suspension shall be no more than one (1) year, irrespective of the 
number and/or the practical application of any Suspension Points that 
might be imposed. 5.10 The ICC will issue a public announcement regarding any decision of 
the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner made under the Code of 
Conduct, as soon as is reasonably practicable after the decision has 
been communicated to the parties. The public announcement of the 
decision may include details of the offences committed under the Code 
of Conduct and of the sanctions imposed, if any. Until such time as a 
public announcement is published, all parties and participants in the 
proceedings	shall	treat	such	proceedings	as	strictly	confidential.	For	the	
avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Article shall prevent any party (or 
any	relevant	National	Cricket	Federation)	publicly	confirming	the	date	of	
the hearing, the offence that is alleged to have been committed and/or 
the name of the Player or Player Support Personnel charged.
ARTICLE 6 – STANDARD OF PROOF AND EVIDENCE
 6.1 Unless otherwise described herein, the standard of proof in all cases 
brought under the Code of Conduct shall be whether the Match Referee 
or	Judicial	Commissioner	is	comfortably	satisfied,	bearing	in	mind	the	
seriousness of the allegation that is made, that the alleged offence has 
been committed. This standard of proof in all cases shall be determined 
on a sliding scale from, at a minimum, a mere balance of probability (for 
the least serious offences) up to proof beyond a reasonable doubt (for 
the most serious offences). 
 6.2 The Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner shall not be bound by judicial 
rules governing the admissibility of evidence. Instead, facts relating to an 
offence committed under the Code of Conduct may be established by any 
reliable means, including admissions. 
 6.3 The Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner may draw an inference 
adverse to the Player or Player Support Personnel who is asserted to have 
committed an offence under the Code of Conduct based on his/her refusal, 
without	compelling	justification,	after	a	request	made	in	a	reasonable	time 	
in advance of the hearing, to appear at the hearing (either in person or 
telephonically as directed by the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner) 
and/or to answer any relevant questions.
ARTICLE 7 – SANCTIONS ON PLAYERS  
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 
COMMENT: The aim of the sanctioning regime under this Code of Conduct is to (a) 
sanction those Players and Player Support Personnel found to have committed an offence 
under the Code of Conduct, and (b) to act as a deterrent to other Players and Player 
Support Personnel to deter them from conducting themselves improperly on and off the 
“field	of	play”.	The	ICC	believes	that	the	threat	of	a	suspension	is	the	strongest	deterrent 	
to bring about a change in behavior, hence the system of accumulated Demerit Points 
which is included in the Code of Conduct. 
 7.1 Where a Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner determines that an 
offence under the Code of Conduct has been committed, he/she will 
be required to impose an appropriate sanction on the Player or Player 
Support Personnel. ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.30 13.31 7.8 Any Suspension Points imposed on a Player or Player Support Personnel 
through the accumulation of Demerit Points will be applicable in addition 
to, and, for the avoidance of doubt, not in place of, any Suspension 
Points or period of suspension imposed by the Match Referee or Judicial 
Commissioner pursuant to Article 7.2 above. However, any such period of 
suspension shall run concurrently with any period of suspension imposed 
by the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner.
EXAMPLE OF THE APPLICATION OF DEMERIT POINTS:
1.	 A	Player	commits	a	Level	1	offence	and	receives	a	fine	of	
50% from the Match Referee.
2. That Player will correspondingly receive two (2) Demerit 
Points in respect of that offence on his/her disciplinary record.
3. The same Player then commits a Level 2 offence three (3) 
months after the Level 1 offence was committed and is 
sanctioned with 2 Suspension Points by the Match Referee.
4. The Level 2 offence will equate to four (4) Demerit Points.
5. As the second offence took place within three (3) months of 
the	first	offence,	the	Demerit	Points	imposed	in	respect	of	the 	
second offence are added to the Demerit Points imposed in 
respect	of	the	first	offence,	meaning	that	the	Player	now	has 	
an accumulated total of six (6) Demerit Points.
6. Six (6) Demerit Points equate to a suspension equivalent 
to two (2) Suspension Points (i.e. 1 Test Match or 2 ODIs 
or 2 T20Is. Such suspension will be served by the Player 
concurrently with the suspension imposed in respect of the 
Level 2 offence.
7. After completing his/her suspension, the Demerit Points 
remain on the Player’s disciplinary record for a period of 
twenty-four (24) months.
8. Three (3) months later, the Player commits another Level 2 
offence	and	is	sanctioned	for	that	offence	with	a	100%	fine.
9. A further three (3) Demerit Points will then be added to the 
Player’s disciplinary record in respect of that offence, taking 
his/her accumulated total within twenty-four (24) months to 
nine (9) Demerit Points.
10. Nine (9) Demerit Points equate to a suspension equivalent to 
four (4) Suspension Points (i.e. 2 Test Matches, 1 Test Match 
and 2 ODIs/T20Is or 4 ODIs or 4 T20Is). Such suspension will 
be served by the Player immediately upon notice of the 
same in accordance with Article 7.7. 
11. After completing his/her suspension, the Demerit Points 
remain on the Player’s disciplinary record for a period of 
twenty-four (24) months. 7.4 Where a Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner imposes a period of 
suspension on any Player or Player Support Personnel, then, unless such 
period	is	for	a	fixed	period	of	time	(for	example,	one	year)	then,	any	
such period of suspension shall be referenced by Suspension Points, 
which shall carry the following weightings: 
 7.4.1 a Test Match or any other International Match of at least four days 
in duration is given a weighting of two (2) Suspension Points;
 7.4.2 a One Day International Match or Twenty20 International Match 
is given a weighting of one (1) Suspension Point; and 
 7.4.3 all other International Matches are given a weighting of one (1) 
Suspension Point. 
 7.5 Each time a Player or Player Support Personnel is found to have 
committed an offence under the Code of Conduct and a sanction is 
imposed by a Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner, corresponding 
Demerit Points as per the table in Article 7.3 above shall be added to 
the Player or Player Support Personnel’s record and accumulated with 
any existing Demerit Points imposed on the Player or Player Support 
Personnel within the previous twenty-four (24) months. The ICC’s 
Cricket Operations Department will keep an accurate and up-to-date 
record of all Demerit Points imposed upon Players and Player Support 
Personnel and will carry out the process of accumulating Demerit 
Points each time a Player or Player Support Personnel is found to have 
committed an offence and sanctioned. 
 7.6 Where a Player or Player Support Personnel accumulates a total of four 
or more Demerit Points as set out in the table below, these Demerit 
Points shall be converted into Suspension Points (at the point that the 
Player	or	Player	Support	Personnel	first	crosses	the	relevant	threshold)	
as follows:
ACCUMULATED  
DEMERIT POINTSCORRESPONDING  
SUSPENSION POINTS
4-7 2
8-11 4
12-15 6
16 and above 8
 7.7 Notice of the amount of Demerit Points imposed and the accumulated 
total, together with any resulting Suspension Points, will be 
communicated by the ICC’s Cricket Operations Department, as soon as 
is reasonably practicable, to the Player or Player Support Personnel at 
the same time as notice is provided to the CEO of the Player or Player 
Support Personnel’s National Cricket Federation of the commission of 
the offence and resulting sanction. Any resulting Suspension Points 
imposed on the basis of accumulated Demerit Points shall be applied in 
accordance with the principles set down in Article 7.9 below and shall 
take effect immediately upon notice of the same to the Player or Player 
Support Personnel.ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL13
13.32
ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13
14.33EXAMPLES OF THE APPLICATION OF SUSPENSION POINTS:
1 Where a Player’s playing history suggests that he/she is most 
likely to represent his/her National Cricket Federation in Test 
Matches only, then the Suspension Points shall be applied to 
his/her future participation in Test Matches only, so that six 
(6) Suspension Points would be applied to the three (3) Test 
Matches immediately following the announcement of the 
decision, notwithstanding that the National Cricket Federation 
might be participating in intervening One Day International 
Matches and/or Twenty20 International Matches.
2. Where a Player’s playing history suggests that he/she is likely 
to be selected to represent his/her National Cricket Federation 
in all formats of International Matches, then the Suspension 
Points shall be applied to his/her future participation in all 
International Matches in the sequential order in which such 
International Matches take place immediately following the 
announcement of the decision. The examples set out below, 
would apply to the following chronological list of potential 
playing	fixtures:
	 –	 Code	of	Conduct	decision	
	 –	 One-Day	International	Match	-	weighting	1	Suspension	
Point (“Match A”)
	 –	 One-Day	International	Match	-	weighting	1	Suspension	
Point (“Match B”)
	 –	 Test	Match	-	weighting	2	Suspension	Point	(“Match C”)
	 –	 Test	Match	weighting	2	Suspension	Point	(“Match D”)
	 –	 Twenty20	International	Match	-	weighting	1	
Suspension Point (“Match E”)
	 –	 Twenty20	International	Match	-	weighting	1	
Suspension Point (“Match F”)
 a) One (1) Suspension Point would be applied to Match A;
 b) Two (2) Suspension Points would be applied to 
Matches A and B;
 c) Three (3) Suspension Points would be applied to 
Matches A, B and E;
 d) Four (4) Suspension Point would be applied to Match 
A, B and C;
 e) Five (5) Suspension Points would be applied to 
Matches A, B, C and E;
 f) Six (6) Suspension Points would be applied to Matches 
A, B, C and D;
 g) Seven (7) Suspension Points would be applied to 
Matches A, B, C, D and E;
 h) Eight (8) Suspension Points would be applied to 
Matches A, B, C, D, E and F. 7.9 Where Suspension Points are imposed against a Player or Player Support 
Personnel (whether by a Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner, or 
through the accumulation of Demerit Points in accordance with Article 
7.6 above), then such Suspension Points will be applied in accordance 
with the following principles: 
 7.9.1 the Match Referee, Judicial Commissioner or the ICC (as applicable) 
shall have regard to the Player’s or Player Support Personnel’s 
participation in the various formats of International Matches over 
the previous two years in order to determine (to the best of his/her 
ability) which of the forthcoming International Matches the Player 
is most likely to participate in or the Player Support Personnel is 
most likely to assist the participation of a Player in; 
 7.9.2 where necessary, the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner 
shall be entitled to consult with the ICC in order to make a 
determination as to which of the forthcoming International 
Matches the Player is most likely to participate in or the Player 
Support Personnel is most likely to assist the participation of a 
Player in; 
 7.9.3 in so far as is reasonably possible, the Match Referee, Judicial 
Commissioner or the ICC (as applicable) shall apply the 
Suspension Points to the subsequent International Matches in 
which the Player is most likely to participate in or the Player 
Support Personnel is most likely to assist the participation of 
a Player in, on a chronological basis immediately following the 
announcement of the decision; 
 7.9.4  where a Player or Player Support Personnel has his/her Suspension 
Points applied to an International Match that is subsequently 
cancelled, postponed or otherwise abandoned prior to the actual 
day on which it is scheduled to take place, then such Suspension 
Points must be reallocated to the next subsequent International 
Matches in which the Player is most likely to participate in or the 
Player Support Personnel is most likely to assist the participation of 
a Player in. Where an International Match is cancelled, postponed 
or otherwise abandoned at any time on the actual day on which 
it is scheduled to take place, then the Suspension Points will 
remain allocated to that International Match, irrespective of such 
cancellation, postponement or abandonment. ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.34 13.35 7.11 Where a Player or Player Support Personnel has had Suspension Points 
imposed	against	him/her	or	has	been	suspended	for	a	fixed	period	
of time, he/she may not play, coach or otherwise participate or be 
involved in any capacity in the International Match(es) whi 
NOTE: For the avoidance of any doubt, a Player or (where relevant) 
Player Support Personnel who has had Suspension Points imposed 
against	him/her	or	has	been	suspended	for	a	fixed	period	of	time	shall 	
not, during the International Matches which are covered by his/her 
Suspension Points or the period of suspension:
a) be nominated as, or carry out any of the duties or responsibilities 
of,	a	substitute	fielder;	or
b) enter any part of the playing area (which shall include, for the 
avoidance	of	doubt,	the	field	of	play	and	the	area	between	the 	
boundary and perimeter boards) at any time, including during any 
scheduled or unscheduled breaks in play.
In addition, Player Support Personnel so sanctioned shall not be 
permitted to enter the players’ dressing room (including the viewing 
areas) during any International Match covered by his/her Suspension 
Points or the period of suspension. Players so sanctioned will, 
however, be permitted to enter the players’ dressing room provided 
that the players’ dressing room (or any part thereof) for the relevant 
International Match is not within the player area described in (b) 
above (for example, no such Player shall be permitted access to an 
on-field	‘dug-out’).
Finally, any Player or Player Support Personnel so sanctioned shall 
not be prevented from attending any post-match ceremonies or 
presentations	taking	place	anywhere	on	the	field	of	play	or	otherwise 	
following the conclusion of an International Match covered by his/her 
Suspension Points or the period of suspension unless the suspension 
or Suspension Points have been imposed in respect of a Level 3 or 
Level 4 Offence under this Code of Conduct. In such circumstances, 
the Player or Player Support Personnel shall not be permitted to 
attend such ceremonies or presentations.
 7.12	 Once	any	Suspension	Points	or	fixed	period	of	suspension	has	
expired, the Player or Player Support Personnel will automatically 
become re-eligible to participate (in the case of a Player) or assist the 
participation (in the case of a Player Support Personnel) in International 
Matches provided that he/she has paid, in full, all amounts forfeited 
under	the	Code	of	Conduct,	including	any	fines,	compensatory	awards	
or award of costs that may have been imposed against him/her.  7.10 For the avoidance of any doubt:
  7.10.1 the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner will have no 
jurisdiction to adjust, reverse or amend the results of any 
International Match; 
 7.10.2  where a Player or Player Support Personnel is found guilty of 
committing two separate Code of Conduct offences that do not 
relate to the same incident or set of circumstances arising during 
an International Match and sanctioned separately for each offence, 
then any sanctions should run cumulatively (and not concurrently); 
 7.10.3  where a Player or Player Support Personnel is found guilty of 
committing two Code of Conduct offences in relation to the same 
incident or set of circumstances arising during an International 
Match and sanctioned separately, then any sanctions imposed 
should run concurrently (and not cumulatively); 
 7.10.4 nothing in this Code of Conduct shall permit plea bargaining  
in relation to any alleged offence committed under this Code  
of Conduct; 
	 7.10.5	 where	the	Match	Referee	or	Judicial	Commissioner	finds	a	Player	
or Player Support Personnel not guilty of the offence allegedly 
committed under the Code of Conduct, then it remains open to 
him/her,	at	his/her	discretion,	to	find	the	Player	or	Player	Support	
Personnel guilty of an offence of a lower level than that with 
which he/she has been charged. For example where a Player or 
Player Support Personnel has been charged with (but been found 
not	guilty	of)	‘showing	dissent	at	an	Umpire’s	decision’	(Article	
2.8)	at	Level	2,	the	Match	Referee	may,	instead,	find	the	Player	
or Player Support Personnel guilty of the same offence at Level 1 
and impose an appropriate sanction; and 
	 7.10.6	 where	a	fine	and/or	costs	award	is	imposed	against	a	Player	or	
Player	Support	Personnel,	 then	such	fine	and/or	costs	award	must	
be paid: (a) by the Player or Player Support Personnel (and not 
any other third party, including a National Cricket Federation); 
(b) to the Player or Player Support Personnel’s National Cricket 
Federation (for onward transmission to the ICC) within one 
calendar	month	of	receipt	of	the	decision	imposing	the	fine.	
However, the ICC will consider any request from any Player or 
Player	Support	Personnel	to	make	the	payment	of	such	fines	
and/or costs over a prolonged period of time on the grounds of 
financial	hardship.	Should	any	fine	and/or	costs	award	(or	agreed	
part-payment or instalment thereof) not be paid to the relevant 
National Cricket Federation within such deadline or by the time 
of the next agreed payment date, the Player or Player Support 
Personnel may not play, coach or otherwise participate or be 
involved in any capacity in any International Match until such 
payment	has	been	satisfied	in	full.	ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.36 13.37	 8.2.3.1	 Upon	filing	a	Notice	of	Appeal	pursuant	to	this	Article	
8.2, the party appealing the decision shall pay to the 
ICC an appeal fee of US $15,000 (the “Appeal Fee”). In 
circumstances where the appeal is successful (i.e. where 
either the sanction originally imposed is reduced, and/or 
the decision on guilt is overturned), the Appeal Fee shall 
be refunded to the appealing party. 
 8.2.3.2 Within 48 hours of receipt of a notice to appeal: (a) the 
ICC’s General Counsel will appoint a member of the ICC’s 
Code of Conduct Commission who is (unless otherwise 
agreed between the parties) from a country other than 
those participating in the International Match during, or 
in relation to which, the alleged offence was committed, 
to act as Judicial Commissioner and hear the appeal 
sitting alone; and (b) the Match Referee will provide a 
written statement to the ICC’s General Counsel setting 
our any relevant facts (to be copied to the Player or 
Player Support Personnel).
 8.2.3.3 The provisions of Articles 5.1.2 to 5.1.11, applicable to 
proceedings before the Match Referee, shall apply 
mutatis mutandis (ie with changes deemed to have been 
made	as	required	to	reflect	the	different	context)	to	
appeal hearings before the Judicial Commissioner. 
 8.2.3.4 The Judicial Commissioner shall hear and determine 
all issues arising from any matter which is appealed 
pursuant to this Article on a de novo basis, ie he/she 
shall hear the matter over again, from the beginning, 
without being bound in any way by the decision being 
appealed. For the avoidance of doubt, the Judicial 
Commissioner shall have the power to increase or 
decrease, amend or otherwise substitute a new 
decision on the appropriateness (or otherwise) of the 
sanction	imposed	at	first	instance,	provided	that	any	
new sanction must be within the permitted range of 
sanctions set out in the table in Article 7.3 (or, where 
applicable, Article 4 of Appendix 2). 
 8.2.3.5 Appeal hearings pursuant to this Article 8.2 should 
be completed expeditiously. Save where all parties 
agree or fairness requires otherwise, the appeal 
hearing shall be commenced no later than seven (7) 
days after the appointment of the member of the 
Judicial Commissioner. It shall be open to the Judicial 
Commissioner, in his/her discretion, to determine that 
the matter (or any part thereof) be dealt with by way of 
written submissions only. 
 8.2.3.6  Any decision made by the Judicial Commissioner under 
this	Article	8.2,	shall	be	the	full,	final	and	complete 	
disposition of the matter and will be binding on all parties. ARTICLE 8 – APPEALS
NOTE: For the avoidance of doubt, the right of appeal will be determined by 
reference to the level of offence which the decision of the Match Referee or Judicial 
Commissioner (as applicable) relates to, and not necessarily the Level of offence 
originally reported. 
By way of example, a Judicial Commissioner may have been asked to determine a Level 
4 Offence, but in coming to his/her decision, he/she has exercised the right afforded 
to him/her in Article 7.10.5 and found the Player or Player Support Personnel concerned 
not guilty of the Level 4 Offence, but guilty of a Level 3 Offence. In such circumstances, 
the right of appeal shall be determined on the basis of the Level 3 Offence and thus in 
accordance with Article 8.2. 
In circumstances where the application of this note would lead to the same level 
of	adjudicator	hearing	the	appeal	as	heard	the	first	instance	case,	then	the	relevant	
adjudicatory body shall be the higher body. By way of example, in the example listed 
above, an Appeal Panel would have the jurisdiction to hear the appeal against the Level 
3 Offence even though technically under the Code of Conduct a Judicial Commissioner 
would	hear	the	appeal,	as	the	first	instance	hearing	was	held	before	a	Judicial	
Commissioner. The terms of this Article 8 should therefore be construed accordingly.
 8.1 Appeals from decisions in relation to a Level 1 Offence
 8.1.1 Decisions made under the Code of Conduct by a Match Referee 
in relation to a Level 1 Offence shall be non-appealable and shall 
remain	the	full	and	final	decision	in	relation	to	the	matter.	
 8.2 Appeals from decisions in relation to: (a) a Level 2 or Level 3 Offence; 
or (b) a Minimum Over Rate Offence
 8.2.1 Decisions made under the Code of Conduct by a Match Referee 
in relation to: (a) a Level 2 or Level 3 Offence; or (b) a Minimum 
Over Rate Offence, may be challenged solely by appeal as set out 
in this Article 8.2. Such decision shall remain in effect while under 
appeal unless any Judicial Commissioner properly convened to 
hear the appeal orders otherwise. 
 8.2.2 The only parties who may appeal a decision of this nature shall 
be: (a) the Player or Player Support Personnel found guilty of the 
offence or, where appropriate in the case of an offence under 
either Article 2.11 (manipulation of an International Match), 2.14 
(changing the condition of the ball), or 2.22 (failure to meet the 
Minimum Over Rate), the relevant Team Captain; (b) the person 
who lodged the Report pursuant to Article 3,1; and (c) the ICC’s 
Chief	Executive	Officer	(or	his/her	designee).
 8.2.3 Any notice to appeal under this Article must be lodged with 
the ICC’s General Counsel within 48 hours of receipt of the 
written decision of the Match Referee. In all cases, a copy of such 
notice will also be provided to the CEO of the National Cricket 
Federation to which the Player or Player Support Personnel is 
affiliated	and	the	person	who	lodged	the	Report	pursuant	to	
Article 3.1. Thereafter, the following will apply:ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.38 13.39 8.3.3.5 Appeal hearings pursuant to this Article 8.3 should be 
completed expeditiously. Save where all parties agree 
or fairness requires otherwise, the appeal hearing shall 
be commenced no later than thirty (30) days after the 
appointment of the Appeal Panel. It shall be open to 
the Appeal Panel, in its discretion, to determine that 
the matter (or any part thereof) be dealt with by way of 
written submissions only.
 8.3.3.6 Any decision made by the Appeal Panel under this Article 
8.3,	shall	be	the	full,	final	and	complete	disposition	of	the	
matter and will be binding on all parties. 
 8.4 No appeal in relation to an accepted sanction 
 8.4.1 For the avoidance of doubt, where a Player or Player Support 
Personnel admits the offence charged and accedes to the 
proposed	sanction	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge	in	
accordance with the procedure described in Articles 4.23.1 or 4.7.1, 
the Player or Player Support Personnel waives his/her right to any 
appeal against the imposition of such a sanction.
ARTICLE 9 – RECOGNITION OF DECISIONS 
 9.1	 Any	hearing	results	or	other	final	adjudications	under	the	Code	of	
Conduct shall be recognised and respected by the ICC and its National 
Cricket Federations automatically upon receipt of notice of the same, 
without the need for any further formality. Each of the ICC and its 
National Cricket Federations shall take all steps legally available to it to 
enforce and give effect to such decisions. 
 9.2 It shall be a condition of membership of the ICC that all National Cricket 
Federations shall comply with the Code of Conduct .
ARTICLE 10 – SANCTIONS AND COSTS ASSESSED  
AGAINST NATIONAL CRICKET FEDERATIONS
 10.1 Where Players or Player Support Personnel representing one National 
Cricket Federation accumulate a combined total of 15 Demerit Points 
(which must arise from at least 6 separate Code of Conduct offences) 
within a twelve month period, that National Cricket Federation shall 
be deemed to have failed to ensure that their Players or Player Support 
Personnel uphold the Spirit of Cricket and consequently the ICC Board 
may,	in	its	absolute	discretion,	impose	a	fine	on	the	National	Cricket	
Federation (up to a maximum of US$ 100,000). 8.3 Appeals from decisions in relation to a Level 4 Offence 
 8.3.1 Decisions made under the Code of Conduct by a Judicial 
Commissioner in relation to a Level 4 Offence may be challenged 
solely by appeal as set out in this Article 8.3. Such decision shall 
remain in effect while under appeal unless any properly convened 
Appeal Panel orders otherwise. 
 8.3.2 The only parties who may appeal a decision made in relation 
to a Level 4 Offence shall be: (a) the Player or Player Support 
Personnel found guilty of the offence; (b) the person who 
lodged the Report pursuant to Article 3.1; and (b) the ICC’s Chief 
Executive	Officer.	
 8.3.3 Any notice to appeal under this Article must be lodged with 
the ICC’s General Counsel within seven (7) days of receipt of 
the written decision of the Judicial Commissioner. In all cases, 
a copy of such notice will also be provided to the CEO of the 
National Cricket Federation to which the Player or Player Support 
Personnel	is	affiliated.	Thereafter,	the	following	will	apply:
	 8.3.3.1	 Upon	filing	a	Notice	of	Appeal	pursuant	to	this	Article	
8.3, the party appealing the decision shall pay to the 
ICC an Appeal Fee. In circumstances where the appeal 
is successful, the Appeal Fee shall be refunded to the 
appealing party. 
 8.3.3.2 Within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt of a notice to 
appeal: (a) the ICC’s General Counsel will appoint three 
members of the ICC’s Code of Conduct Commission each 
of whom are (unless otherwise agreed between the 
parties) from a country other than those participating 
in the relevant International Match to sit as the 
Appeal Panel to hear the appeal; and (b) the Judicial 
Commissioner will provide a written statement to the 
ICC’s General Counsel setting our any relevant facts (to 
be copied to the Player or Player Support Personnel). 
 8.3.3.3 The provisions of Articles 5.2.2 to 5.2.14, applicable to 
proceedings before the Judicial Commissioner, shall 
apply mutatis mutandis (ie with changes deemed to 
have	been	made	as	required	to	reflect	the	different	
context) to appeal hearings before the Appeal Panel. 
 8.3.3.4 Where required in order to do justice (for example to 
cure	procedural	errors	at	the	first	instance	hearing),	the	
appeal shall take the form of a re-hearing de novo of the 
issues raised by the case. In all other cases, the appeal 
shall not take the form of a de novo hearing but instead 
shall be limited to a consideration of whether the 
decision being appealed was erroneous. ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.40 13.41APPENDIX 1
DEFINITIONS
Appeal Fee.	As	defined	in	Article	8.2.3.1.
Appeal Panel. A panel of three persons appointed by the ICC from the members 
of the ICC Code of Conduct Commission to perform the functions assigned to the 
Appeal Panel under the Code of Conduct. Each member of the Appeal Panel shall 
be independent of the ICC, which may provide reasonable compensation and 
reimbursement of expenses to such members.
Associate Member. Any National Cricket Federation with associate member status 
of the ICC.
Complainant.	As	defined	in	Article	5.2.2.
Demerit Points. Points which are accrued by a Player or Player Support Personnel 
pursuant to Article 7 each time he/she commits an offence under the Code of Conduct. 
Effective Date.	As	defined	in	Article	11.3.
Full Member. Any National Cricket Federation with full member status of the ICC.
ICC. The International Cricket Council or its designee. 
ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer. The person appointed by the ICC from time to time 
to	act	as	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer	(or	his/her	designee).
ICC’s Chief Referee. The person appointed by the ICC from time to time to act as 
the ICC’s Chief Referee (or his/her designee).
ICC	Classification	of	Official	Cricket.	The	ICC	Classification	of	Official	Cricket,	in	
force from time to time.
ICC’s Clothing and Equipment Regulations. The ICC’s Clothing and Equipment 
Regulations, in force from time to time.
ICC Code of Conduct Commission.	An	official	committee	of	the	ICC	established,	
amongst other things, to enquire into conduct which is prejudicial to the interests 
of the game of cricket. Each member of the ICC Code of Conduct Commission 
shall be independent of the ICC, which may provide reasonable compensation and 
reimbursement of expenses to such members. 
ICC	Code	of	Conduct	for	Match	Officials	and	Match	Official	Support	Personnel.  
The	ICC’s	Code	of	Conduct	for	Match	Officials	and	Match	Official	Support	Personnel,	
in force from time to time.ARTICLE 11 – AMENDMENT AND INTERPRETATION  
OF THE CODE OF CONDUCT
 11.1 The Code of Conduct may be amended from time to time by the 
Executive Board of the ICC, with such amendments coming into effect 
on	the	date	specified	by	the	ICC.	
 11.2 The headings used for the various Articles of the Code of Conduct are 
for the purpose of guidance only and shall not be deemed to be part of 
the substance of the Code of Conduct or to inform or affect in any way 
the language of the provisions to which they refer.
 11.3 The Code of Conduct shall come into full force and effect on 1 August 
2019 (the “Effective Date”). It shall not apply retrospectively to matters 
pending before the Effective Date; provided, however, that any case 
pending prior to the Effective Date, or brought after the Effective Date 
but based on an offence that is alleged to have occurred before the 
Effective Date, shall be governed by the predecessor version of the 
Code of Conduct in force at the time of the alleged offence, subject 
to any application of the principle of lex mitior by the hearing panel 
determining the case.
 11.4 If any Article or provision of this Code of Conduct is held invalid, 
unenforceable or illegal for any reason, the Code of Conduct shall 
remain otherwise in full force apart from such Article or provision which 
shall be deemed deleted insofar as it is invalid, unenforceable or illegal. 
 11.5 The Code of Conduct is governed by and shall be construed in 
accordance with English law. Strictly without prejudice to the 
arbitration provisions of Articles 5 and 8 of the Code of Conduct, 
disputes relating to the Code of Conduct shall be subject to the 
exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.
 ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.42 13.43Minimum Over Rate. As	defined	in	Appendix	2	of	this	Code	of	Conduct.
Minimum Over Rate Offence.	Any	of	the	offences	described	in	Articles	2.22.1	–	2.22.2.
Minor Over Rate Offence.	As	defined	in	Article	2.22.1.	
National Cricket Federation. A national or regional entity which is a member of or 
is recognised by the ICC as the entity governing the sport of cricket in a country (or 
collective group of countries associated for cricket purposes). 
Notice of Charge.	As	defined	in	Article	4.1,	4,2	and/or	Article	4.6.
One Day International Match.	As	defined	in	the	ICC	Classification	of	Official	Cricket.	
Player. Any cricketer who is selected in any playing or touring team or squad that 
is chosen to represent a National Cricket Federation in any International Match or 
series of International Matches.
Player Support Personnel.	Any	coach,	trainer,	manager,	selector,	team	official, 	
doctor, physiotherapist or any other person employed by, representing or otherwise 
affiliated	to	a	playing/touring	team	or	squad	that	is	chosen	to	represent	a	National 	
Cricket Federation in any International Match or series of International Matches. 
Report.	As	defined	in	Article	3.1.
Serious Over Rate Offence.	As	defined	in	Article	2.22.2.	
Suspension Points. The weighting points used to determine the period of 
suspension imposed against any Player or Player Support Personnel pursuant to 
Article 7 of the Code of Conduct. 
Team Captain or Vice Captain.	The	official	captain	or	vice	captain	of	any	team	
participating in a Match.
Team Manager.	The	official	manager	of	any	team	participating	in	a	Match.
Test Match. As	defined	in	the	ICC	Classification	of	Official	Cricket.
Twenty20 International Match.	As	defined	in	the	ICC	Classification	of	Official	Cricket.
Umpire.	Any	umpire	(including	any	third	or	other	umpires)	appointed	to	officiate	in	
a Match.
 ICC Events. Each of the following: (a) the ICC Cricket World Cup; (b) the ICC 
World Twenty20; (c) the ICC Champions Trophy; (d) the ICC World Cricket League 
Championship and Divisions 2-5 (inclusive), together with any regional qualifying 
events thereto; (e) the ICC Women’s World Cup; (f) the ICC Under 19 Cricket World 
Cup; (g) the ICC World Cup Qualifying Tournament; (h) the ICC Women’s World Cup 
Qualifying Tournament, together with any regional qualifying events thereto; (i) the 
ICC World Twenty20 Qualifying Tournament; (j) the ICC Under 19 Cricket World Cup 
Qualifying Tournament, together with any regional qualifying events thereto; (k) the 
ICC Intercontinental Cup; and (l) any other event organised or sanctioned by the ICC 
from time to time to which the ICC deems it appropriate that the Code of Conduct 
should apply. The Code of Conduct shall apply for the “Support Period” of the relevant 
ICC	Event	(as	such	term	is	defined	by	the	ICC	in	respect	of	each	ICC	Event). 	
ICC’s General Counsel. The person appointed by the ICC from time to time to act  
as the ICC’s General Counsel (or his/her designee).
ICC Standard Test Match, ODI and T20I Playing Conditions. Each of the ICC’s 
Men’s and Women’s Test Match, One Day International and Twenty20 International 
Playing Conditions, in force from time to time.
International Match. Each of the following (in men’s and women’s cricket): (a) any Test 
Match, One Day International Match or Twenty20 International Match; (b) any Match 
played as part of an ICC Event; (c) any Match played between representative sides of 
any National Cricket Federation at Under 19 level or above; (d) any International Tour 
Match; or (e) any other Match organised or sanctioned by the ICC from time to time to 
which the ICC deems it appropriate that the Code of Conduct should apply.
International Tour Match. Any Match played between a representative team of a 
Full Member (or Associate Member with Test and/or ODI or T20I Status) and any 
domestic, guest or invitational team. 
Judicial Commissioner. The independent person appointed by the ICC from the 
ICC Code of Conduct Commission, to perform the functions assigned to the Judicial 
Commissioner under the Code of Conduct. 
Level 1 Offence. Any offence charged at Level 1. 
Level 2 Offence. Any offence charged at Level 2.
Level 3 Offence. Any offence charged at Level 3.
Level 4 Offence. Any offence charged at Level 4.
Match. A cricket match of any format and duration in length played between 
representative	teams	(male	or	female)	of	two	National	Cricket	Federations	affiliated	
to the ICC. 
Match Fee. The designated match fee (which is to be used for the purposes of 
calculating sanctions in accordance with Article 7) as set out in Appendix 3 of this 
Code of Conduct.
Match Referee. The independent person appointed by the ICC (or any other relevant 
party)	as	the	official	match	referee	for	a	designated	International	Match,	whether	such 	
Match Referee carries out his/her functions remotely or otherwise. Where a Match 
Referee is not physically present at a particular Match, he/she may be assisted in the 
administrative	performance	of	his/her	duties	under	this	Code	of	Conduct	by	any	official 	
‘Match	Manager’	who	may	be	appointed	to	officiate	at	such	International	Match. 	ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.44 13.45 2.3.2 in Twenty20 International Matches:
 (a) 1 minute for every 3 full overs that an innings is reduced by 
as a result of any delay and/or interruption in play.
 2.4 Further, the following exclusions and exemptions will be applied: 
 2.4.1 in Test Matches (or other International Matches of at least four 
days in duration):
	 (a)	 if	the	fielding	team	bowls	out	the	batting	team	in	60	overs	
or less in any particular innings and the Minimum Over Rate 
requirement for that innings has not been exceeded (taking 
into account all of the time allowances described in this 
Article 2), no account shall be taken of the actual over rate in 
that innings when calculating the actual over rate at the end 
of such Match. 
	 (b)	 if	the	fielding	team	bowls	out	the	batting	team	twice	but	has 	
not completed more than 120 overs in total across both of 
its	completed	fielding	innings	in	doing	so,	no	sanction	will	be 	
imposed in respect of any breach of the Minimum Over Rate.
	 (c)	 if	the	fielding	team	has	not	completed	more	than	60	overs	in	
total in the course of its two innings in a Match, no sanction 
will be imposed in respect of any breach of the Minimum 
Over Rate.
 2.4.2  in One Day International Matches or Twenty20 International Matches:
	 	(a)	 if	the	fielding	team	bowls	out	the	batting	team	within	the	
time determined for that innings pursuant to the ICC’s 
Standard ODI or T20I Playing Conditions (as applicable), no 
sanction will be imposed in respect of any breach of the 
Minimum Over Rate. 
 3 PROCEDURE 
 3.1 Where the actual over rate is calculated by the Umpires as being equal to 
or in excess of the Minimum Over Rate, no further action shall be taken.
 3.2 Where the actual over rate is calculated by the Umpires as being less 
than the Minimum Over Rate, the following shall apply: 
	 3.2.1	 only	the	Umpires	that	officiated	in	the	International	Match	
during which the alleged offence was committed can report 
such an offence to the Match Referee, and such Report, which 
must be completed on Form “Rep 1” must be lodged with the 
Match Referee (or, where, for logistical reasons, it is impractical 
to lodge with the Match Referee, the ICC’s Cricket Operations 
Department) within 18 hours of the close of the day’s play in the 
relevant International Match or prior to the start of the following 
day’s play, whichever is the sooner; 
 3.2.2  thereafter, the Match Referee shall promptly consult with the 
Umpires and shall be entitled, after such consultation, to make such 
amendments to the actual over rate calculation as he/she deems 
appropriate	in	the	circumstances	to	reflect	those	circumstances 	
that	are	beyond	the	control	of	the	fielding	team	(including,	but	not 	
limited to those set out in Article 2 of this Appendix 2). APPENDIX 2
MINIMUM OVER RATE  
REQUIREMENTS, CALCULATION, REPORTING  
AND DISCIPLINARY PROCESS AND SANCTIONS
 1 MINIMUM OVER RATE
	 The	minimum	over	rate	to	be	achieved	by	the	fielding	team	in	all	International	
Matches shall be as set out in the ICC Standard Test Match, ODI and T20I 
Playing Conditions applicable to the relevant International Match (the 
“Minimum Over Rate”). 
 2 CALCULATING THE ACTUAL OVER RATE
 2.1 The actual over rate will be calculated at the end of each International 
Match	by	those	Umpires	appointed	to	officiate	in	such	International	Match. 	
In the case of Test Matches (or other International Matches of at least four 
days in duration), the actual over rate will be the average rate which is 
achieved	by	the	fielding	team	across	both	of	the	batting	team’s	innings. 	
 2.2 In calculating the actual over rate for an International Match, allowances 
will be given for the actual time lost as a result of any of the following:
 2.2.1 treatment given to a Player by an authorised medical personnel 
on	the	field	of	play;
	 2.2.2	 a	Player	being	required	to	leave	the	field	as	a	result	of	a	 
serious injury;
 2.2.3 all TV Umpire referrals and consultations; 
 2.2.4 time wasting by the batting side (which may, in addition, 
constitute a separate offence pursuant to Article 2.20 depending 
upon the context and seriousness of the incident); and 
 2.2.5 all other circumstance that are beyond the control of the  
fielding	team.
 2.3 In addition, the following time allowances will be given:
 2.3.1 in Test Matches (or other International Matches of at least four 
days in duration):
 (a) 2 minutes per wicket taken, provided that such wicket 
results in the subsequent batter immediately commencing 
his/her innings. For the avoidance of any doubt, no time 
allowance	will	be	given	for	the	final	wicket	of	an	innings	or	
where a wicket falls immediately prior to any interval; and
 (b) 4 minutes per drinks break taken (one per session). ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.46 13.47APPENDIX 3
MATCH FEES
Unless otherwise agreed in advance of an International Match or ICC Event, for the 
purposes of any sanctions that are to be applied pursuant to this Code of Conduct, 
the following designated Match Fees shall apply: 
TYPE OF INTERNATIONAL MATCH DESIGNATED MATCH FEE
Any Test Match, One Day International Match 
or Twenty20 International Matches (other 
than Twenty20 International Matches (men’s 
or women’s) taking place between teams 
which do not hold ODI status). A	country-specific	amount	which	is	to	be	
determined by the ICC’s Chief Executive’s 
Committee in consultation with the relevant 
National Cricket Federations.
All other International Matches. The applicable Match Fee will be zero. 
Accordingly, while a Match Referee or Judicial 
Commissioner will have jurisdiction under 
this	Code	of	Conduct	to	impose	a	financial 	
sanction against any Player or Player Support 
Personnel for a breach of this Code of Conduct 
the effect of such sanction will be zero in a 
financial	sense.	However,	the	corresponding 	
Demerit	Points	applicable	to	such	a	fine	will	be 	
added to the relevant Player or Player Support 
Personnel’s disciplinary record. Further, the 
remaining range of permissible sanctions (set 
out in the tables in Article 7.3 and Article 4 of 
Appendix 2) shall be available to the Match 
Referee and/or Judicial Commissioner in full. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the designated Match Fee to be applied for the 
purposes of an offence committed by a Player Support Personnel shall be the 
same as that which would be applied to a Player from the same National Cricket 
Federation participating in the same International Match.	 3.2.3	 where	the	Match	Referee	confirms	that	the	Minimum	Over	Rate	
has	not	been	achieved	by	the	fielding	side	in	any	International	
Match, this shall constitute an offence under Article 2.22 of the 
Code of Conduct and the Match Referee will promptly issue a 
Notice of Charge in accordance with Article 4.1 of the Code of 
Conduct (with the Team Captain being charged on behalf of all 
the	Players	in	the	fielding	side	as	well	as	him/herself)	and	the	
matter will be thereafter be adjudicated by the Match Referee in 
accordance with the procedure set out in Article 5.
 4 APPLICABLE SANCTIONS FOR A MINIMUM OVER  
RATE OFFENCE
 4.1 For the purposes of Minimum Over Rate Offences only, the table at 
Article 7.3 of the Code of Conduct shall be replaced with the following: 
BREACH CHARGED RANGE OF PERMISSIBLE SANCTIONS
Over Rate Offence 
(Article 2.22)All 11 Players in  
the	fielding	team20% of Match Fee per over short of 
Minimum Over Rate (subject to a 
maximum cap of 100% of Match Fee).
 4.2 For the avoidance of doubt, Demerit Points shall not be applied in 
respect of any Minimum Over Rate Offence. ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNELICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13 13
13.48 13.49 5.2 Disciplinary Procedure during an ICC Event
 5.2.1 Subject to the discretion of the Match Referee or Judicial 
Commissioner to order otherwise for good cause shown by the 
Player or Player Support Personnel, the hearing will take place at the 
time	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge	(which	should,	in	the	absence 	
of exceptional circumstances, be no more than twenty-four (24) 
hours after the receipt by the Player or Player Support Personnel 
of the Notice of Charge) and in the country in which the alleged 
offence was committed. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this 
Article 5.2.1 prevents a hearing from being convened at a time during 
which the International Match in relation to which the alleged 
offence took place, remains in progress. 
 5.2.2  The procedure followed at the hearing shall be at the discretion 
of the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner, provided that the 
hearing is conducted in a manner which offers the Player or Player 
Support Personnel with a fair and reasonable opportunity to present 
evidence (including the right to call and to question witnesses 
by telephone or video-conference where necessary), address the 
Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner and present his/her case.
 5.2.3 The hearing before the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner 
shall	be	in	English,	and	certified	English	translations	shall	be	
submitted of any non-English documents put before the Match 
Referee or Judicial Commissioner. The cost of the translation shall 
be borne by the party offering the document(s). In the case of a 
Level 4 Offence only: (a) if required by the Judicial Commissioner 
(at his/her discretion), the ICC shall make arrangements to have 
the hearing recorded or transcribed; and (b) if requested by the 
Player or Player Support Personnel, the ICC shall also arrange for 
an interpreter to attend the hearing. Such costs of transcription 
and interpretation shall be paid by the ICC. 
 5.2.4 Where video evidence of the alleged offence is available at the 
hearing before the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner, then 
it may be relied upon by any party, provided that all other parties 
shall have the right to make such representations in relation to it 
that	they	may	see	fit.	
 5.2.5 Unless exceptional circumstances apply, each of the following 
individuals must attend any hearing before the Match Referee or 
Judicial Commissioner: (a) the Player or Player Support Personnel 
who has been charged with the alleged offence; and (b) the person 
who lodged the Report (or, in the case of the ICC’s Chief Executive 
Officer,	his/her	representative/nominee).	Where	any	such	individual 	
has	a	compelling	justification	for	his/her	non-attendance,	then	they 	
shall be given the opportunity to participate in the hearing before 
the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner by telephone or video 
conference (if available). Without prejudice to the Player or Player 
Support Personnel’s ability to call and to question such witnesses as 
may be necessary and/or to be represented by such other person 
of his/her own choosing pursuant to Article 5.2.6, one of the Team 
Captain, Team Vice-Captain or Team Manager of the team that 
the Player or Player Support Personnel represents may also attend 
such hearing before the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner to 
provide additional support and assistance to the Player or Player 
Support Personnel. APPENDIX 4
EXPEDITED PROCEDURE FOR CODE OF CONDUCT 
OFFENCES OCCURING DURING AN ICC EVENT
Where a Code of Conduct offence is alleged to have occurred during, or in relation 
to, an International Match that is played as part of an ICC Event (except the ICC 
Intercontinental Cup or the ICC World Cricket League Championship inclusive in which 
no expedited procedure is to be applied), the provisions of the Code of Conduct shall 
apply in full save for the amendments described in this Appendix 4, which are deemed 
to be made in order to ensure that any matters arising can be dealt with expediently: 
ARTICLE 3 – REPORTING AN ALLEGED OFFENCE  
UNDER THE CODE OF CONDUCT 
	 -	 Article	3.2.1.1(b)	–	“twenty-four	(24)	hours”	is	replaced	with	  
“eighteen (18) hours”.
	 -	 Article	3.2.1.2	–	“forty-eight	(48)	hours	(where	the	Report	is	lodged	by	
an Umpire) or ninety-six (96) hours (where the Report is lodged by the 
Team Manager or CEO of either of the two relevant National Cricket 
Federations)” is replaced with “eighteen (18) hours”.
	 -	 Article	3.2.1.4	–	“seven	(7)	days”	is	replaced	with	“thirty-six	(36)	hours”.
	 -	 Article	3.2.2.1	–	“five	(5)	days”	is	replaced	with	“twenty-four	(24)	hours”.
	 -	 Article	3.2.2.2	–	“seven	(7)	days”	is	replaced	with	“thirty-six	(36)	hours”.
	 -	 Article	3.2.3	–	“seven	(7)	days”	is	replaced	with	“thirty-six	(36)	hours”.
ARTICLE 4 – NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE
	 -	 Article	4.3.2	–	“Article	5.1”	is	replaced	with	“Article	5.1.1”
	 -	 Article	4.3.3	–	“Article	5.1”	is	replaced	with	“Article	5.1.1”
	 -	 Article	4.7.2	–	“Article	5.2”	is	replaced	with	“Article	5.1.2”
	 -	 Article	4.7.3	–	“Article	5.2”	is	replaced	with	“Article	5.1.2”
ARTICLE 5 – THE DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE 
 - Articles 5.1 and 5.2 are replaced in their entirety with the following:
 5.1 Where a matter proceeds to a hearing:
 5.1.1 under Article 4.3.2 or 4.3.3, then, subject to Article 5.7, the case 
shall be referred to the Match Referee for adjudication in 
accordance with the procedure described in Article 5.2. 
 5.1.2 under Article 4.7.2 or 4.7.3, then the ICC shall appoint one 
member of the ICC’s Code of Conduct Commission (who shall 
be independent of the parties, have had no prior involvement 
with the case and shall not, unless otherwise agreed between 
the parties, be from a country participating in the International 
Match, during, or in relation to which, the alleged offence was 
committed) to sit alone as the Judicial Commissioner and the 
case shall be referred to him/her for adjudication in accordance 
with the procedure described in Article 5.2. ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL13
13.50
 (b) where the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner 
determines that a Code of Conduct offence has been 
committed, the Player or Player Support Personnel 
may request a short adjournment (of no more than 
thirty (30) minutes) to prepare any submissions 
that he/she might wish to make in relation to the 
appropriate sanction that ought to be applied; and 
 (c) as soon as possible after the conclusion of the 
hearing (and, in any event, no later than twenty-four 
(24) hours thereafter), the Match Referee or Judicial 
Commissioner will announce his/her decision in 
writing,	with	reasons,	setting	out:	(a)	the	finding 	
as to whether a Code of Conduct offence had 
been committed; (b) what sanctions, if any, are 
to	be	imposed	(including	any	fine	and/or	period 	
of suspension); (c) the date that any period of 
suspension shall come into force and effect; and 
(d) any rights of appeal that may exist pursuant to 
Article 8.
 5.2.10 The Match Referee shall have the discretion to announce 
the substance of his/her decision prior to the issue of the 
written reasoned decision referred to in Article 5.2.9. 
 5.2.11 A copy of the written reasoned decision will be provided 
to the Player or Player Support Personnel, the CEO of 
the Player or Player Support Personnel’s National Cricket 
Federation, and the ICC’s Cricket Operations Manager.
 5.2.12 Subject only to the rights of appeal under Article 8, the 
Match Referee’s or Judicial Commissioner’s decision shall 
be	the	full,	final	and	complete	disposition	of	the	matter	
and will be binding on all parties.
ARTICLE 8 – APPEALS 
 - Article 8.2.3 - “48 hours” is replaced with “24 hours”.
	 -	 Article	8.2.3.2	–	“48	hours”	is	replaced	with	“24	hours”.	
	 -	 Article	8.2.3.3	–	“Articles	5.1.2	to	5.1.11”	is	replaced	with	“the	amended	
Articles 5.1 and 5.2”. 
	 -	 Article	8.2.3.5	–	“seven	days”	is	replaced	with	“48	hours”	.
	 -	 Article	8.3.3	–	“seven	(7)	days”	is	replaced	with	“48	hours”.
 - Article 8.3.3.3 - “Articles 5.2.2 to 5.2.14” is replaced with “the amended 
Articles 5.1 and 5.2”. 
	 -	 Article	8.3.3.5	–	“thirty	(30)	days”	is	replaced	with	“72	hours”.ICC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PLAYERS 
AND PLAYER SUPPORT PERSONNEL 13
13.51 5.2.6 Each of the individuals described in Article 5.2.5(a) and (b) shall 
have the right (at his/her or its own expense) to be represented 
at the hearing before the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner 
by such representative (including legal counsel) of his/her or 
its own choosing. Where the person lodging the Report is an 
Umpire	or	Match	Referee	that	officiated	in	the	International	
Match	in	question	or	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer,	then	such	
person shall be entitled to be represented prior to, and during, 
the hearing (if he/she considers necessary) by a representative 
of the ICC’s Legal Department. In the case of a Level 4 Offence 
only, where the person lodging the Report is the CEO of one 
of the National Cricket Federations involved in the relevant 
International Match (or his/her designee), such individual (or his/
her representative) shall have the right to make oral submissions 
in support of the charge at the hearing.
 5.2.7 The non-attendance of any Player or Player Support Personnel or 
his/her representative at the hearing, shall not prevent the Match 
Referee or Judicial Commissioner from proceeding with the 
hearing in his/her absence and issuing a ruling in relation to the 
offence charged. 
 5.2.8 At the end of a hearing, where the Match Referee or Judicial 
Commissioner considers that further evidence is necessary or 
further time is required to consider the evidence that has been 
presented, he/she shall adjourn the hearing for an appropriate 
period of time and make such directions as may be necessary. 
 5.2.9 Alternatively, at the end of a hearing: 
 5.2.9.1 brought under Article 4.3.2: 
 (a) as soon as possible after the conclusion of the 
hearing (and, in any event, no later than twenty-four 
(24) hours thereafter), the Match Referee or Judicial 
Commissioner	will	confirm	the	Player	or	Player 	
Support Personnel’s admission that he/she had 
committed a Code of Conduct offence and announce 
his/her decision in writing, with reasons, setting 
out: (a) what sanctions, if any, are to be imposed 
(including	any	fine	and/or	period	of	suspension);	(b) 	
the date that any period of suspension shall come 
into force and effect; and (c) any rights of appeal that 
may exist pursuant to Article 8.
  5.2.9.2 brought under Article 4.3.3 (or where the Player or Player 
Support Personnel has failed to respond in a timely 
fashion to the Notice of Charge): 
 (a) the Match Referee or Judicial Commissioner shall 
adjourn the hearing (for a period of no less than 
ten (10) minutes and no more than two (2) hours), 
following which he/she will reconvene the hearing 
and	verbally	announce	his/her	finding	as	to	whether 	
a Code of Conduct offence has been committed;15.1ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS
CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 SCOPE AND APPLICATION 15.2
ARTICLE 2 OFFENCE  15.4
ARTICLE 3 REPORTING AN ALLEGED OFFENCE  
 UNDER THE ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 15.4
ARTICLE 4 NOTIFICATION AND CONCILIATION PROCEDURE 15.5
ARTICLE 5 THE DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE 15.8
ARTICLE 6 STANDARD OF PROOF AND EVIDENCE 15.13
ARTICLE 7 SANCTIONS 15.14
ARTICLE 8 APPEALS 15.18
ARTICLE 9 RECOGNITION OF DECISIONS 15.19
ARTICLE 10 AMENDMENT AND INTERPRETATION  
 OF THE ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 15.19
APPENDIX 1 DEFINITIONS  15.20
APPENDIX 2 EXPEDITED PROCEDURE FOR OFFENCES  
 UNDER THE ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE  
 OCCURRING DURING AN ICC EVENT 15.23
15
ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION 
CODE FOR PARTICIPANTS
ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS15
15.2
 1.3 Without prejudice to Articles 1.1 and 1.2, the ICC and the National Cricket 
Federations shall be responsible for promoting Anti-Discrimination Code 
awareness and education amongst all Participants. 
 1.4 It is acknowledged that certain Participants may also be subject to 
other rules of National Cricket Federations that govern discipline and/or 
conduct, and that the same conduct of such Participants may implicate 
not only the Anti-Discrimination Code but also such other rules that 
may apply. For the avoidance of any doubt, Participants acknowledge 
and agree that: (a) the Anti-Discrimination Code is not intended to limit 
the responsibilities of any Participant under such other rules; and (b) 
nothing in such other rules shall be capable of removing, superseding 
or amending in any way the jurisdiction of the Judicial Commissioner 
or Appeal Panel to determine matters properly arising pursuant to the 
Anti-Discrimination Code. 
 1.5 The conduct prohibited under the Anti-Discrimination Code may 
also constitute a breach of other applicable laws or regulations 
(e.g. governing equal opportunities and/or anti-discrimination). The 
Anti-Discrimination Code is intended to supplement such laws and 
regulations with further rules of professional conduct for those involved 
in the sport of cricket. It is not intended, and may not be interpreted, 
construed or applied, to prejudice or undermine in any way the 
application of such laws and regulations. Participants must comply with 
all applicable laws and regulations at all times. 
 1.6 For the avoidance of any doubt:
 1.6.1 the Anti-Discrimination Code is not intended in any way to 
replace the ICC Anti-Discrimination Policy for International 
Cricket (as amended from time to time) which shall remain in full 
force and effect and to which the ICC and all National Cricket 
Federations agree to be bound at all times; and
 1.6.2 where a representative side of a National Cricket Federation 
participates in an International Tour Match against a domestic or 
invitational team, for the purposes of their participation in such 
International Tour Match: 
 1.6.2.1 all Players and Player Support Personnel representing 
the National Cricket Federation’s representative side 
are automatically bound by, required to comply with, 
and shall submit themselves to the jurisdiction of this 
Anti-Discrimination Code; and 
 1.6.2.2 all players or player support personnel representing the 
domestic or invitational team shall not be bound by this 
Anti-Discrimination Code. Instead, such individuals will 
be bound by, required to comply with, and shall submit 
themselves to the jurisdiction of the relevant National 
Cricket Federation’s own applicable rules of conduct. ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15
15.3INTRODUCTION
The ICC is the international federation responsible for the global governance  
of the sport of cricket and the Anti-Discrimination Code for Participants  
(the “Anti-Discrimination Code”) is adopted and implemented as part of the ICC’s 
continuing efforts to maintain the public image, popularity and integrity of cricket 
by providing: (a) an effective means to deter any participant from conducting 
themselves in a manner that may be construed as discriminatory or offensive 
based upon certain protected personal characteristics of another; and (b) a robust 
disciplinary procedure pursuant to which all matters of improper conduct of this 
nature can be dealt with fairly, with certainty and in an expeditious manner.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to Articles and Appendices are to articles 
and appendices of the Anti-Discrimination Code. Words in italicised text in the 
Anti-Discrimination	Code	are	defined	terms	and	their	definitions	are	set	out	in	
Appendix 1.
ARTICLE 1 – SCOPE AND APPLICATION 
 1.1 All Participants are automatically bound by and required to comply with 
all of the provisions of the Anti-Discrimination Code. Accordingly, by 
their participation (in the case of a Player) or assistance in participation 
(in	the	case	of	a	Player	Support	Personnel)	or	appointment	to	officiate	
(in the case of an Umpire or Match Referee) or appointment to 
support an Umpire or Match Referee (in the case of an Umpire Support 
Personnel) in an International Match, such Participants shall be deemed 
to have agreed:
 1.1.1 that it is their personal responsibility to familiarise themselves 
with all of the requirements of the Anti-Discrimination Code, 
including what conduct constitutes an offence under the Anti-
Discrimination Code; 
 1.1.2 to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of any Judicial 
Commissioner or Appeal Panel convened under the Anti-
Discrimination Code to hear and determine charges brought 
(and any appeals in relation thereto) pursuant to the Anti-
Discrimination Code; and
 1.1.3 not to bring any proceedings in any court or other forum that are 
inconsistent with the foregoing submission to the jurisdiction of 
the Judicial Commissioner or Appeal Panel. 
 1.2 All Participants shall continue to be bound by and required to comply 
with the Anti-Discrimination Code until he/she has not participated 
(in the case of a Player), or assisted a Player’s participation (in the case 
of	a	Player	Support	Personnel),	or	officiated	(in	the	case	of	an	Umpire	
or Match Referee), or been appointed to support an Umpire or Match 
Referee (in the case of an Umpire Support Personnel) in an International 
Match for a period of three (3) months and the ICC shall continue to 
have jurisdiction over him/her under the Anti-Discrimination Code 
thereafter in respect of matters taking place prior to that point. ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15 15
15.4 15.5ARTICLE 4 – NOTIFICATION AND CONCILIATION PROCEDURE 
 4.1 Where a Match Referee (or, as applicable, the ICC’s Legal Department) 
receives a Report lodged under Article 3, he/she must promptly submit 
the Report to the ICC’s General Counsel. Upon receipt of a Report, the 
ICC’s General Counsel must promptly carry out an investigation into 
the circumstances detailed in the Report (which may include speaking 
with relevant parties and reviewing relevant documents and other 
supporting materials) in order to determine whether the Participant 
named in the Report has a case to answer.
 4.2 If the initial review of the Report reveals that there is no case to answer, 
then	the	ICC	shall	notify	the	person	who	filed	the	Report	of	that	fact,	
and the matter shall not proceed any further. 
 4.3 If the initial review of the Report reveals that there is a case to answer, 
then, provided that the ICC consents to the matter being resolved by 
a process of conciliation (such consent not to be withheld unless it 
determines, acting reasonably, that the circumstances of the matter do 
no merit resolution by conciliation or there is a genuine and reasonable 
concern that a just and appropriate resolution of the matter will not be 
reached through a process of conciliation), the ICC shall comply with the 
following procedure:
 4.3.1 The ICC’s General Counsel shall notify the following individuals of 
their	entitlement	to	have	the	matter	referred	at	the	first	instance	
to a process of conciliation and seek express written consent 
from	each	of	them,	within	a	period	specified	by	the	ICC’s	General	
Counsel in his/her notice, to proceed on that basis:
 4.3.1.1 the Participant named in the Report; and
 4.3.1.2 the individual(s) who has/have been the subject of the 
alleged offence. 
 4.3.2 Where the ICC does not consent to the matter being resolved 
by a process of resolution or where the ICC’s General Counsel 
is unable to obtain the express written consent from both of 
the individuals described in Articles 4.3.1.1 and 4.3.1.2 within the 
deadline	specified	in	the	notice,	then	the	matter	shall	not	be	
referred to a process of conciliation, instead it shall proceed in 
accordance with Article 4.4. 
 4.3.3 Where a matter proceeds to conciliation under Article 4.3.1, 
then the case shall be referred to a Conciliator who shall be 
responsible for overseeing a process of conciliation to take  
place as soon as possible and, unless exceptional circumstances 
apply, no later than fourteen (14) days after the receipt by the 
ICC’s General Counsel of the consents described in Article 4.3.1,  
in accordance with the following procedure:
 4.3.3.1  The ICC shall appoint one independent Conciliator who will 
oversee the conciliation sitting alone. For the avoidance of 
doubt, the appointed Conciliator may be from a country 
participating in the International Match during, or in relation 
to which, the alleged offence was committed, provided 
that the Conciliator remains independent of the relevant 
parties and the ICC at all times. ARTICLE 2 – OFFENCE 
 2.1 The following conduct, if committed by a Participant at any time during, 
or in relation to, an International Match, shall amount to an offence 
under the Anti-Discrimination Code:
 2.1.1 Engaging in any conduct (whether through the use of language, 
gestures or otherwise) which is likely to offend, insult, humiliate, 
intimidate, threaten, disparage or vilify any reasonable person in 
the position of a Player, Player Support Personnel, Umpire, Match 
Referee, Umpire Support Personnel or any other person (including 
a spectator) on the basis of their race, religion, culture, colour, 
descent, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender, sexual orientation, 
disability, marital status and/or maternity status
ARTICLE 3 – REPORTING AN ALLEGED OFFENCE  
UNDER THE ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
NOTE: Where an offence under the Anti-Discrimination Code is alleged to have occurred 
during, or in relation to, an International Match that is played as part of an ICC Event, 
the Anti-Discrimination Code shall apply in full, but with a series of amendments to the 
reporting,	notification,	disciplinary	and	appeals	procedure	(Articles	3,	4,	5	and	8)	in	order 	
to ensure that any matters arising can be dealt with expediently. Such amendments are 
described in detail in Appendix 2. 
 3.1 Any one of the following individuals can report an alleged offence 
under the Anti-Discrimination Code by lodging a report in the manner 
described in Article 3.2, below (a “Report”): 
	 3.1.1	 an	Umpire	that	officiated	in	the	International	Match	during,	or	in	
relation to which, the alleged offence was committed; 
	 3.1.2	 the	Match	Referee	that	was	appointed	to	officiate	in	the	
International Match during, or in relation to which, the alleged 
offence was committed; 
 3.1.3 the Team Manager or CEO of either of the two National Cricket 
Federations whose representative teams participated in the 
International Match during, or in relation to which, the alleged 
offence was committed; or
	 3.1.4	 the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer.
 3.2 All Reports must be completed on Form “Rep 1” (or such other form as 
may be made available for such purposes by the ICC from time to time). 
All Reports must be signed and dated by the person lodging the Report 
and must be lodged with the Match Referee (or, where, for logistical 
reasons, it is impractical to lodge with the Match Referee, the ICC’s 
Legal Department) as soon as reasonably practicable, and in any event 
no later than seven (7) days after: (a) the commission of the alleged 
offence; or (b) the alleged offence was brought to the attention of the 
person lodging the Report. 
 3.3 Where it is alleged that a Participant has committed more than one 
offence under the Anti-Discrimination Code during, or in relation to, 
an International Match (whether arising out of the same set of facts or 
otherwise),	then	a	separate	Report	should	be	filed	in	accordance	with	
this Article 3 for each of the offences alleged to have been committed. ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15 15
15.6 15.7 4.3.3.6  During the conciliation meeting, the Conciliator will 
discuss the circumstances of the alleged offence with the 
relevant parties and explore the possibility of reaching a 
consensual solution for how to resolve the matter without 
invoking the disciplinary procedure set out in Article 5. 
Such a solution may incorporate, without limitation, any 
of the following (or any combination of the following) 
outcomes: (a) the voluntary imposition of a period of 
suspension (which period must be determined having 
due regard to the range of permissible sanctions in Article 
7.3) by the Participant alleged to have committed the 
offence; and/or (b) a public apology and/or explanation 
as to the parties’ conduct and circumstances surrounding 
the alleged offence; and/or (c) a private apology and/or 
explanation as to the parties’ conduct and circumstances 
surrounding the alleged offence; and/or (d) a joint press 
statement being issued about the parties’ conduct and 
circumstances surrounding the alleged offence and/or 
its resolution by conciliation; and/or (e) an agreement by 
the Participant alleged to have committed the offence, 
to	undergo	a	specified	programme	of	education	and/or 	
counselling designed to promote the understanding and 
awareness of issues directly relevant to the offence that is 
alleged to have been committed. 
 4.3.3.7  At the end of the conciliation meeting, if the Conciliator is 
satisfied	that	all	of	the	parties	have	reached	a	consensual 	
resolution of the matter, then he/she shall document such 
resolution and arrange for the signature of all relevant 
parties to be attested to such document. Any consensual 
resolution reached by all parties during such conciliation 
meeting	shall	be	the	full,	final	and	complete	disposition	of 	
the matter and will be binding on all parties. 
 4.3.3.8 At the end of the conciliation meeting, if the Conciliator 
is	not	satisfied	that	all	of	the	parties	have	reached	
a consensual resolution of the matter, then the 
conciliation process shall be terminated immediately and 
the matter shall proceed in accordance with Article 4.4. 
 4.3.3.9  The ICC will issue a public announcement regarding 
any consensual resolution reached by all the parties 
during the conciliation meeting as soon as reasonably 
practicable after the end of the conciliation meeting. The 
public announcement may include details of the identity 
of the Conciliator and the process followed, as well as 
the offence committed and the terms of any agreed 
resolution. Until such time as a public announcement 
is published by the ICC, all parties involved in the 
conciliation procedure shall treat such procedure as 
strictly	confidential.	For	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	nothing 	
in this Article shall prevent the ICC or either of the parties 
(or any relevant National Cricket Federation) publicly 
confirming	the	date	of	any	conciliation	meeting,	the 	
offence that is alleged to have been committed and/or 
the name of the Participant charged.  4.3.3.2 Unless exceptional circumstances apply, each of the 
parties	identified	in	Articles	4.3.1.1	and	4.3.1.2,	together	
with: (a) the person who lodged the Report (or, in 
the	case	of	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer,	his/her	
nominee); and (b) a representative of the ICC’s Legal 
Department, must attend any conciliation meeting 
that is scheduled by the Conciliator. Each individual 
shall have the right (at his/her or its own expense) to 
be represented at such conciliation meeting by such 
representative (including legal counsel) of his/her 
or its own choosing and to make submissions to the 
Conciliator. Where any such individual has a compelling 
justification	for	his/her	non-attendance,	then	they	shall	
be given the opportunity to participate in the conciliation 
by telephone or video conference (if available). In 
addition, where the Participant charged is a Player or 
Player Support Personnel, any one of the Team Captain, 
Team Vice Captain or Team Manager of the team that 
any Player or Player Support Personnel attending such 
conciliation meeting represents, may also attend such 
conciliation meeting to provide additional support and 
assistance to that Player or Player Support Personnel. 
 4.3.3.3 Subject to the discretion of the Conciliator (or the ICC 
in circumstances where the Conciliator is yet to be 
appointed) to order otherwise for good cause shown by 
either party, conciliation meetings shall take place in the 
country in which the alleged offence was committed. 
 4.3.3.4 All of the parties involved in the conciliation procedure 
must fully engage with the Conciliator and the 
conciliation procedure with an open mind and must act, 
at all times, honestly and in good faith.
 4.3.3.5 The procedure which is to be followed prior to, and 
during the conciliation meeting shall be entirely at 
the discretion of the Conciliator, provided that any 
such meeting is conducted in an open, inquisitive, 
non-adversarial and fair manner which enables all of the 
attending parties a reasonable opportunity to present 
any evidence that is deemed by the Conciliator to be 
appropriate and to address the Conciliator on any matter 
relevant to the alleged offence. In accordance with 
Article 6.2, all statements, submissions and evidence 
made, heard or disclosed during any part of the 
conciliation process shall be so made, heard or disclosed 
strictly (unless the relevant party agrees otherwise) on 
a	‘without	prejudice’	basis	and	may	only	be	used	by	any	
party for the purposes of the conciliation process only. ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15 15
15.8 15.9 5.1.2 The Judicial Commissioner shall convene a preliminary 
hearing with the ICC and its legal representatives, and with 
the Participant and his/her legal representatives (if any). The 
preliminary hearing should take place as soon as possible 
(provided that the Participant shall be given a reasonable period 
of notice of the same) by telephone conference call unless 
the Judicial Commissioner determines otherwise. The non-
participation of the Participant or his/her representative at the 
preliminary hearing shall not prevent the Judicial Commissioner 
from proceeding with the preliminary hearing, whether or not 
any written submissions are made on behalf of the Participant. 
 5.1.3 The purpose of the preliminary hearing shall be to allow the Judicial 
Commissioner to address any preliminary issues. In particular (but 
without limitation), the Judicial Commissioner shall:
 5.1.3.1 determine the date(s) upon which the full hearing shall 
be held. Save in exceptional circumstances or where 
the parties otherwise agree, the full hearing should take 
place no longer than fourteen (14) days after the receipt 
by the Participant of the Notice of Charge;
 5.1.3.2 establish dates reasonably in advance of the date of the 
full hearing by which:
 (a) the ICC shall submit an opening brief with argument 
on all issues that the ICC wishes to raise at the 
hearing and a list of the witnesses that the ICC 
intends to call at the hearing (and a summary of the 
subject areas of the witness’s anticipated testimony), 
and enclosing copies of the exhibits that the ICC 
intends to introduce at the hearing;
 (b) the Participant shall submit an answering brief, 
addressing the ICC’s arguments and setting out 
argument on the issues that he/she wishes to raise 
at the hearing, as well as a list of the witnesses that 
he/she intends to call at the hearing (and a summary 
of the subject areas of the witness’s anticipated 
testimony), and enclosing copies of the exhibits that 
he/she intends to introduce at the hearing; and
 (c) the ICC may (at its discretion) submit a reply brief, 
responding to the answer brief of the Participant and 
listing any rebuttal witnesses that the ICC intends 
to call at the hearing (and a summary of the subject 
areas of the witness’s anticipated testimony), and 
enclosing copies of any other exhibits that the ICC 
intends to introduce at the hearing; and
 5.1.3.3 make such order as the Judicial Commissioner shall deem 
appropriate in relation to the production of relevant 
documents and/or other materials between the parties.
 5.1.4 Subject to the discretion of the Judicial Commissioner to order 
otherwise for good cause shown by either party, hearings before 
the Judicial Commissioner shall take place in the country in which 
the alleged offence was committed.  4.4 If the initial review of the Report reveals that there is a case to answer 
and either: (a) the ICC did not consider it to be an appropriate matter for 
resolution through conciliation (Article 4.3); or (b) the relevant parties did 
not consent to the matter being resolved through a conciliation process 
(Article 4.3.2); or (b) following a conciliation meeting the Conciliator was 
not	satisfied	that	the	parties	were	able	to	reach	a	consensual	resolution 	
(Article 4.3.3.8), then the ICC shall promptly provide a copy of the Report, 
together with a completed Form “Not 1” (such documents comprising the 
‘Notice of Charge’) to the following individuals: 
 4.4.1 the Participant named in the Report; 
 4.4.2 where applicable, the Team Manager of the relevant Participant 
named in the Report; and
 4.4.3 where applicable, the CEO of the National Cricket Federation to 
which	the	relevant	Participant	is	affiliated.	
 4.5 The Notice of Charge shall specify that the Participant shall have the 
following options: 
 4.5.1  he/she may admit the offence charged and accede to the proposed 
sanction	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge	(which	sanction	shall	be 	
strictly at the ICC’s discretion, but at all times within the appropriate 
range for the offence). In such circumstances, and provided that 
such admission has been received by the ICC’s General Counsel prior 
to	the	commencement	of	the	hearing	at	the	time/place	specified	in 	
the Notice of Charge, the hearing before the Judicial Commissioner 
shall not be required and no further action shall be taken, save that 
the	ICC	shall	promptly	issue	a	public	statement	confirming:	(a)	the 	
commission of an offence under the Anti-Discrimination Code; and 
(b)	the	imposition	of	the	applicable	sanction	specified	in	the	Notice 	
of Charge; or
 4.5.2  he/she may admit the offence charge but dispute the proposed 
sanction	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge,	in	which	case	the	
matter shall proceed to a hearing in accordance with Article 5.1; 
or
 4.5.3 he/she may deny the offence charged, in which case the matter 
shall proceed to a hearing in accordance with Article 5.1. 
ARTICLE 5 – THE DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
 5.1 Where a matter proceeds to a hearing under Article 4.5.2 or 4.5.3, then 
the case shall be referred to a Judicial Commissioner for adjudication in 
accordance with the following procedure:
 5.1.1 As soon as reasonably possible, the ICC shall appoint one member 
from the ICC’s Code of Conduct Commission to sit as the Judicial 
Commissioner to hear the case sitting alone. The appointed 
member shall be independent of the parties, have had no prior 
involvement with the case and shall not, unless otherwise agreed 
between the parties, be from a country participating in the 
International Match during, or in relation to which, the alleged 
offence was committed, or, where the Participant charged is an 
Umpire, Match Referee or Umpire Support Personnel, be from the 
same country as the relevant Participant. ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15 15
15.10 15.11 5.1.10 The non-attendance of the Participant or his/her representative 
at the hearing, after proper notice of the hearing has been 
provided, shall not prevent the Judicial Commissioner from 
proceeding with the hearing in his/her absence, whether or not 
any written submissions are made on his/her behalf.
 5.1.11 At the end of a hearing, where the Judicial Commissioner 
considers that further evidence is necessary or further time is 
required to consider the evidence that has been presented, he/
she shall adjourn the hearing for an appropriate period of time 
and make such directions as may be necessary. 
 5.1.12 Alternatively, at the end of a hearing: 
 5.1.12.1 brought under Article 4.5.2: 
 (a) as soon as possible after the conclusion of 
the hearing (and, in any event, no later than 
forty-eight (48) hours thereafter), the Judicial 
Commissioner	will	confirm	the	Participant’s	
admission that he/she had committed an offence 
under the Anti-Discrimination Code and announce 
his/her decision in writing, with reasons, setting 
out: (a) what sanctions, if any, are to be imposed; 
(b) the date that any period of suspension shall 
come into force and effect; and (c) any rights of 
appeal that may exist pursuant to Article 8.
  5.1.12.2 brought under Article 4.5.3 (or where the Participant 
has failed to respond in a timely fashion to the Notice 
of Charge): 
 (a) the Judicial Commissioner shall adjourn the 
hearing (for a period of no less than ten (10) 
minutes and no more than twenty-four (24) 
hours), following which he/she will reconvene 
the	hearing	and	verbally	announce	his/her	finding	
as to whether an offence under the Anti-
Discrimination Code has been committed;
 (b) where the Judicial Commissioner determines that 
an offence under the Anti-Discrimination Code 
has been committed, the Participant may request 
a short adjournment (of no more than thirty (30) 
minutes) to prepare any submissions that he/she 
might wish to make in relation to the appropriate 
sanction that ought to be applied; and 
 (c) as soon as possible after the conclusion of 
the hearing (and, in any event, no later than 
forty-eight (48) hours thereafter), the Judicial 
Commissioner will announce his/her decision in 
writing,	with	reasons,	setting	out:	(a)	the	finding	
as to whether an offence under the Anti-
Discrimination Code had been committed; (b) 
what sanctions, if any, are to be imposed; (c) the 
date that any period of suspension shall come into 
force and effect; and (d) any rights of appeal that 
may exist pursuant to Article 8. 5.1.5 The procedure followed at the hearing shall be at the discretion of 
the Judicial Commissioner, provided that the hearing is conducted 
in a manner which offers the Participant a fair and reasonable 
opportunity to present evidence (including the right to call and 
to question witnesses by telephone or video-conference where 
necessary), address the Judicial Commissioner and present his/her 
case. For the avoidance of any doubt, in accordance with Article 
6.2, unless the relevant party agrees otherwise, no evidence 
shall be adduced, given or accepted during any hearing before 
the Judicial Commissioner in relation to anything that may have 
been	said	or	disclosed	during	any	part	of	any	‘without	prejudice’	
conciliation process carried out pursuant to Article 4.3. 
 5.1.6 The hearing before the Judicial Commissioner shall be in English, 
and	certified	English	translations	shall	be	submitted	of	any	
non-English documents put before the Judicial Commissioner.  
The cost of the translation shall be borne by the party offering the 
document(s). If required by the Judicial Commissioner (at his/her 
discretion), the ICC shall make arrangements to have the hearing 
recorded or transcribed. If requested by the Participant, the ICC 
shall also arrange for an interpreter to attend the hearing. Such 
costs of transcription and interpretation shall be paid by the ICC. 
 5.1.7 Where video evidence of the alleged offence is available at the 
hearing before the Judicial Commissioner, then it may be relied upon 
by any party, provided that all other parties shall have the right to 
make	such	representations	in	relation	to	it	that	they	may	see	fit.
 5.1.8 Unless exceptional circumstances apply, each of the following 
individuals must attend any hearing before the Judicial 
Commissioner: (a) the Participant who has been charged with the 
alleged offence; (b) the person who lodged the Report (or, in the 
case	of	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer,	his/her	representative/
nominee); and (c) a representative of the ICC’s Legal Department. 
Where	any	such	individual	has	a	compelling	justification	for	his/
her non-attendance, then they shall be given the opportunity to 
participate in the hearing before the Judicial Commissioner by 
telephone or video conference (if available). Without prejudice 
to the Participant’s ability to call and to question such witnesses 
as may be necessary and/or to be represented by such other 
person of his/her own choosing pursuant to Article 5.1.9, where 
the Participant charged is a Player or Player Support Personnel, 
one of the Team Captain, Team Vice-Captain or Team Manager of 
the team that the Player or Player Support Personnel represents 
may also attend such a hearing to provide additional support and 
assistance to the Player or Player Support Personnel. 
 5.1.9 Each of the individuals described in Article 5.1.8(a) and (b) shall 
have the right (at his/her or its own expense) to be represented 
at the hearing before the Judicial Commissioner by such 
representative (including legal counsel) of his/her or its own 
choosing. Where the person lodging the Report is an Umpire 
or	Match	Referee	that	officiated	in	the	International	Match	in	
question	or	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer,	then	such	person	
shall be entitled to be represented prior to, and during, the 
hearing (if he/she considers necessary) by a representative of the 
ICC’s Legal Department. ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15 15
15.12 15.13 5.7 The ICC will issue a public announcement regarding any decision 
of the Judicial Commissioner made under the Anti-Discrimination 
Code, as soon as is reasonably practicable after the decision has been 
communicated to the parties. The public announcement of the decision 
may include details of the offences committed under the Anti-
Discrimination Code and of the sanctions imposed, if any. Until such 
time as a public announcement is published, all parties and participants 
in	the	proceedings	shall	treat	such	proceedings	as	strictly	confidential.	
For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Article shall prevent any 
party	(or	any	relevant	National	Cricket	Federation)	publicly	confirming	
the date of the hearing, the offence that is alleged to have been 
committed and/or the name of the Participant charged.  
ARTICLE 6 – STANDARD OF PROOF AND EVIDENCE
 6.1 Unless otherwise described herein, the standard of proof in all cases 
brought under the Anti-Discrimination Code shall be whether the 
Judicial	Commissioner	is	comfortably	satisfied,	bearing	in	mind	the	
seriousness of the allegation that is made, that the alleged offence has 
been committed. This standard of proof in all cases shall be determined 
on a sliding scale from, at a minimum, a mere balance of probability (for 
the least serious offences) up to proof beyond a reasonable doubt (for 
the most serious offences). 
 6.2 The Judicial Commissioner shall not be bound by judicial rules governing 
the admissibility of evidence. Instead, facts relating to any alleged 
offence under the Anti-Discrimination Code may be established by 
any reliable means, including admissions. However, all statements, 
submissions and/or evidence made, heard or disclosed during any part 
of any conciliation process pursuant to Article 4.3, shall be so made, 
heard or disclosed strictly (unless the relevant party agrees) on a 
‘without	prejudice’	basis	and	used	for	the	purposes	of	the	conciliation	
process only. Accordingly, no such statements, submissions and/or 
evidence shall be adduced, given or accepted during any disciplinary 
hearing before the Judicial Commissioner without the express consent 
of the relevant party.
 6.3 The Judicial Commissioner may draw an inference adverse to the 
Participant who is asserted to have committed an offence under the 
Anti-Discrimination Code based on his/her refusal, without compelling 
justification,	after	a	request	made	in	a	reasonable	time	in	advance	of	  
the hearing, to appear at the hearing (either in person or telephonically 
as directed by the Judicial Commissioner) and/or to answer any  
relevant questions.  5.1.13 The Judicial Commissioner shall have the discretion to announce 
the substance of his/her decision prior to the issue of the 
written reasoned decision referred to in Article 5.1.12. 
 5.1.14 A copy of the written reasoned decision will be provided to the 
Participant, the CEO of the Player or Player Support Personnel’s 
National Cricket Federation (where applicable) and the ICC’s 
General Counsel) .
 5.1.15 Subject only to the rights of appeal under Article 8, the Judicial 
Commissioner’s	decision	shall	be	the	full,	final	and	complete	
disposition of the matter and will be binding on all parties.
 General Principles of Procedure
 5.2	 Where	a	Report	is	filed	by	more	than	one	of	the	individuals	described	
in Article 3.1 in relation to the same alleged offence under the Anti-
Discrimination Code, then the Participant alleged to have committed 
the offence will only be served with one Notice of Charge in accordance 
with the procedures set out in Article 4. However, all persons who 
filed	a	Report	(or,	in	the	case	of	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive,	his/her	
representative/nominee) in relation to the alleged offence are required 
to attend the hearing before the Judicial Commissioner unless there 
is	a	compelling	justification	for	his/her	non-attendance,	in	which	case	
they shall be given the opportunity to participate in the hearing by 
telephone or video conference (if available). 
 5.3 Where two or more Participants are alleged to have committed offences 
under the Anti-Discrimination Code, they may both be dealt with at the 
same hearing where the proceedings arise out of the same incident or set 
of facts, or where there is a clear link between separate incidents. 
 5.4 Where a Participant is alleged to have committed more than one breach 
of the Anti-Discrimination Code during, or in relation to, the same 
International Match, then all of the alleged offences may be dealt with 
at the same hearing. 
 5.5 Any failure or refusal by any Participant to provide assistance to a 
Judicial Commissioner in connection with any charge made pursuant 
to this Anti-Discrimination Code may constitute a separate offence 
(depending upon the seriousness and context of such failure or refusal) 
under Articles 2.1.8, 2.2.11, 2.3.3 or 2.4.3 of the Code of Conduct. 
 5.6 Where a Judicial Commissioner is, or becomes unwilling or unable to 
hear	a	case	(for	example,	where	he/she	finds	him/herself	in	a	position	
of	conflict),	then	the	ICC’s	General	Counsel	shall	have	the	discretion	to	
appoint another member of the ICC’s Code of Conduct Commission as 
a replacement to the Judicial Commissioner and all of the remaining 
procedure will apply accordingly. ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15 15
15.14 15.15 7.4 Where a Judicial Commissioner imposes a period of suspension on any 
Player or Player Support Personnel, then, unless such period is for a 
fixed	period	of	time	(for	example,	one	year)	then,	any	such	period	of	
suspension shall be referenced by Suspension Points, which shall carry 
the following weightings: 
 7.4.1 a Test Match or any other International Match of at least four days 
in duration is given a weighting of two (2) Suspension Points;
 7.4.2 a One Day International Match or Twenty20 International Match 
is given a weighting of one (1) Suspension Point; and 
 7.4.3 all other International Matches are given a weighting of one (1) 
Suspension Point. 
 7.5 Where Suspension Points are imposed against a Player or Player Support 
Personnel, then such Suspension Points will be applied in accordance 
with the following principles: 
 7.5.1 the Judicial Commissioner shall have regard to the Player’s or 
Player Support Personnel’s participation in the various formats 
of International Matches over the previous two years in order 
to determine (to the best of his/her ability) which of the 
forthcoming International Matches the Player is most likely to 
participate in or the Player Support Personnel is most likely to 
assist the participation of a Player in; 
 7.5.2 where necessary, the Judicial Commissioner shall be entitled to 
consult with the ICC in order to make a determination as to which 
of the forthcoming International Matches the Player is most likely 
to participate in or the Player Support Personnel is most likely to 
assist the participation of a Player in; 
 7.5.3 in so far as is reasonably possible, the Judicial Commissioner shall 
apply the Suspension Points to the subsequent International 
Matches in which the Player is most likely to participate in or the 
Player Support Personnel is most likely to assist the participation 
of a Player in, on a chronological basis immediately following the 
announcement of the decision; 
 7.5.4 where a Player or Player Support Personnel has his/her 
Suspension Points applied to an International Match that is 
subsequently cancelled, postponed or otherwise abandoned 
prior to the actual day on which it is scheduled to take place, 
then such Suspension Points must be reallocated to the next 
subsequent International Matches in which the Player is 
most likely to participate in or the Player Support Personnel 
is most likely to assist the participation of a Player in. Where 
an International Match is cancelled, postponed or otherwise 
abandoned at any time on the actual day on which it is scheduled 
to take place, then the Suspension Points will remain allocated 
to that International Match, irrespective of such cancellation, 
postponement or abandonment. ARTICLE 7 – SANCTIONS 
 7.1 Where a Judicial Commissioner determines that an offence under the 
Anti-Discrimination Code has been committed, he/she will be required 
to impose an appropriate sanction on the Participant. 
 7.2 In order to determine the appropriate sanction that is to be imposed  
in	each	case,	the	Judicial	Commissioner	must	first	consider	whether	  
the Participant has previously been found guilty of the same offence 
under the Anti-Discrimination Code or any predecessor regulations  
that may have applied (including the Anti-Racism Code and/or the  
Code of Conduct). 
 7.3 Once the Judicial Commissioner has established whether this is a 
repeat offence, then he/she shall go on to take into account any other 
factors that he/she deems relevant and appropriate to the mitigation 
or aggravation of the nature of the offence (including, without 
limitation, the nature and frequency of any previous offences under 
the Anti-Discrimination Code or any predecessor regulations) before 
determining, in accordance with the following table, what  
the appropriate sanction(s) should be: 
RANGE OF PERMISSIBLE 
SANCTIONS  
(FIRST OFFENCE)RANGE OF PERMISSIBLE 
SANCTIONS  
(SECOND OFFENCE)RANGE OF PERMISSIBLE  
SANCTIONS  
(THIRD OFFENCE)
In the case of a Player 
or Player Support 
Personnel, the 
imposition of between 
four (4) and eight (8) 
Suspension Points.
In the case of an 
Umpire, Match Referee 
or Umpire Support 
Personnel, a suspension 
of between one (1) and 
three (3) months during 
which period such 
Umpire, Match Referee 
or Umpire Support 
Personnel shall not 
officiate	or	otherwise	
participate in any Match.In the case of a Player 
or Player Support 
Personnel, the imposition 
of between eight (8) 
Suspension Points and a 
lifetime’s suspension. 
In the case of an Umpire, 
Match Referee or Umpire 
Support Personnel, a 
suspension of between 
three (3) months and a 
lifetime during which 
period such Umpire, 
Match Referee or Umpire 
Support Personnel shall 
not	officiate	or	otherwise 	
participate in any Match.In the case of a Player 
or Player Support 
Personnel, the imposition 
of a suspension of 
between one (1) year and 
a lifetime.
In the case of an Umpire, 
Match Referee or Umpire 
Support Personnel, a 
suspension of between 
one (1) year and a lifetime 
during which period such 
Umpire, Match Referee 
or Umpire Support 
Personnel shall not 
officiate	or	otherwise 	
participate in any Match.
AND (in all cases)
The mandatory requirement to undergo a programme of education/counselling 
designed to promote the understanding and awareness of issues directly relevant 
to the offence that the Participant has been determined to have committed.ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15 15
15.16 15.17 7.6 For the avoidance of any doubt:
  7.6.1 the Judicial Commissioner will have no jurisdiction to adjust, 
reverse or amend the results  of any International Match; 
 7.6.2 where a Participant is found guilty of committing two separate 
Anti-Discrimination Code offences that do not relate to the same 
incident or set of circumstances arising during an International 
Match and sanctioned separately for each offence, then any 
sanctions should run cumulatively (and not concurrently); 
 7.6.3 where a Participant is found guilty of committing two Anti-
Discrimination Code offences in relation to the same incident 
or set of circumstances during an International Match and 
sanctioned separately, then any sanctions imposed should run 
concurrently (and not cumulatively); and 
 7.6.4 nothing in this Anti-Discrimination Code shall permit plea 
bargaining in relation to any alleged offence committed under 
this Anti-Discrimination Code. 
 7.7 Where a Participant has had Suspension Points imposed against him/
her	or	has	been	suspended	for	a	fixed	period	of	time,	he/she	may	not	
play,	coach,	officiate,	support	an	Umpire	or	Match	Referee	or	otherwise	
participate or be involved in any capacity in the International Match(es) 
which: (a) are covered by the application of his/her Suspension Points as 
determined in accordance with Article 7.5; or (b) take place during the 
fixed	period	of	his/her	suspension.	
 7.8 Once any period of suspension has expired, the Participant will 
automatically become re-eligible to participate (in the case of a 
Player) or assist a Player’s participation (in the case of a Player Support 
Personnel)	or	officiate	(in	the	case	of	an	Umpire	or	Match	Referee)	or	
be appointed to support an Umpire or Match Referee (in the case of 
an Umpire Support Personnel) in International Matches provided that 
he/she	has	first;	(a)	completed	the	official	programme	of	education/
counselling to the reasonable satisfaction of the relevant programme 
organiser or demonstrated that he/she continues to fully participate 
in	such	programme;	and	(b)	satisfied,	in	full,	any	award	of	costs	made	
against him/her by any Appeal Panel pursuant to Article 8.3.5. EXAMPLE OF THE APPLICATION OF SUSPENSION POINTS:
1 Where a Player’s playing history suggests that he/she is most 
likely to represent his National Cricket Federation in Test 
Matches only, then the Suspension Points shall be applied to 
his/her future participation in Test Matches only, so that six 
(6) Suspension Points would be applied to the three (3) Test 
Matches immediately following the announcement of the 
decision, notwithstanding that the National Cricket Federation 
might be participating in intervening One Day International 
Matches and/or Twenty20 International Matches.
2 Where a Player’s playing history suggests that he/she is likely 
to be selected to represent his National Cricket Federation in all 
formats of International Matches, then the Suspension Points 
shall be applied to his/her future participation in all International 
Matches in the sequential order in which such International 
Matches take place immediately following the announcement 
of the decision. The examples set out below, would apply to the 
following	chronological	list	of	potential	playing	fixtures:
	 –	 Code	of	Conduct	decision	
	 –	 One-Day	International	Match	-	 
weighting 1 Suspension Point (“Match A”)
	 –	 One-Day	International	Match	-	 
weighting 1 Suspension Point (“Match B”)
	 –	 Test	Match	-	weighting	2	Suspension	Point	(“Match C”)
	 –	 Test	Match	weighting	2	Suspension	Point	(“Match D”)
	 –	 Twenty20	International	Match	-	 
weighting 1 Suspension Point (“Match E”)
	 –	 Twenty20	International	Match	-	 
weighting 1 Suspension Point (“Match F”)
 (a) One (1) Suspension Point would be applied to Match A;
 (b) Two (2) Suspension Points would be applied to 
Matches A and B;
 (c) Three (3) Suspension Points would be applied to 
Matches A, B and E;
 (d) Four (4) Suspension Point would be applied to Match 
A, B and C;
 (e) Five (5) Suspension Points would be applied to 
Matches A, B, C and E;
 (f) Six (6) Suspension Points would be applied to Matches 
A, B, C and D;
 (g) Seven (7) Suspension Points would be applied to 
Matches A, B, C, D and E;
 (h) Eight (8) Suspension Points would be applied to 
Matches A, B, C, D, E and F.
 ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15 15
15.18 15.19ARTICLE 9 – RECOGNITION OF DECISIONS 
 9.1	 Any	hearing	results	or	other	final	adjudications	under	the	Anti-
Discrimination Code shall be recognised and respected by the ICC and 
its National Cricket Federations automatically upon receipt of notice of 
the same, without the need for any further formality. Each of the ICC 
and its National Cricket Federations shall take all steps legally available 
to it to enforce and give effect to such decisions. 
 9.2 It shall be a condition of membership of the ICC that all National Cricket 
Federations shall comply with the Anti-Discrimination Code. 
ARTICLE 10 – AMENDMENT AND INTERPRETATION OF THE ANTI-
DISCRIMINATION CODE
 10.1 The Anti-Discrimination Code may be amended from time to time by 
the	ICC,	with	such	amendments	 coming	into	effect	on	the	date	specified	
by the ICC. 
 10.2 The Anti-Discrimination Code shall be interpreted as an independent 
and autonomous text and not by reference to existing law or statutes of 
any National Cricket Federation or government.
 10.3 The headings used for the various Articles of the Anti-Discrimination 
Code are for the purpose of guidance only and shall not be deemed to 
be part of the substance of the Anti-Discrimination Code or to inform or 
affect in any way the language of the provisions to which they refer.
 10.4 The Anti-Discrimination Code shall come into full force and effect on  
1 August 2019 (the “Effective Date”). It shall not apply retrospectively to 
matters pending before the Effective Date; provided, however, that any 
case pending prior to the Effective Date, or brought after the Effective 
Date but based on an offence that is alleged to have occurred before 
the Effective Date, shall be governed by the predecessor version of the 
Anti-Discrimination Code (or the Anti-Racism Code as applicable) in 
force at the time of the alleged offence, subject to any application of 
the principle of lex mitior by the hearing panel determining the case.
 10.5 If any Article or provision of this Anti-Discrimination Code is held invalid, 
unenforceable or illegal for any reason, the Anti-Discrimination Code shall 
remain otherwise in full force apart from such Article or provision which 
shall be deemed deleted insofar as it is invalid, unenforceable or illegal. 
 10.6 The Anti-Discrimination Code is governed by and shall be construed 
in accordance with English law. Strictly without prejudice to the 
arbitration provisions of Articles 5 and 8 of the Anti-Discrimination 
Code, disputes relating to the Anti-Discrimination Code shall be subject 
to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.
 ARTICLE 8 – APPEALS
 8.1 Decisions made under the Anti-Discrimination Code by a Judicial 
Commissioner may be challenged solely by appeal as set out in Article 
8. Such decisions shall remain in effect while under appeal unless any 
Appeal Panel properly convened to hear the appeal orders otherwise. 
 8.2 The only parties who may appeal a decision made under the Anti-
Discrimination Code shall be: (a) the Participant found guilty of the 
offence;	and	(b)	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer.	
 8.3 Any notice to appeal under this Article must be lodged with the ICC’s 
General Counsel within seven (7) days of receipt of the written decision 
of the Judicial Commissioner. In all cases, a copy of such notice will also 
be provided to the CEO of the National Cricket Federation to which the 
Participant	is	affiliated.	Thereafter,	the	following	will	apply:
 8.3.1 Within forty-eight (48) hours of receipt of a notice to appeal: 
(a) the ICC’s General Counsel will appoint three members of the 
ICC’s Code of Conduct Commission each of whom are (unless 
otherwise agreed between the parties) from a country other 
than those participating in the relevant International Match or 
the country of the Umpire, Match Referee or Umpire Support 
Personnel to sit as the Appeal Panel to hear the appeal; and (b) 
the Judicial Commissioner will provide a written statement to the 
ICC’s General Counsel setting our any relevant facts (to be copied 
to the Player or Player Support Personnel). 
 8.3.2  The provisions of Articles 5.1.2 to 5.1.14, applicable to proceedings 
before the Judicial Commissioner, shall apply mutatis mutandis (ie 
with	changes	deemed	to	have	been	made	as	required	to	reflect 	
the different context) to appeal hearings before the Appeal Panel. 
 8.3.3 The Appeal Panel shall hear and determine all issues arising from 
any matter which is appealed to it pursuant to this Article on 
a de novo basis, ie it shall hear the matter over again, from the 
beginning, without being bound in any way by the decision being 
appealed. For the avoidance of doubt, the Appeal Panel shall 
have the power to increase or decrease, amend or otherwise 
substitute a new decision on the appropriateness (or otherwise) 
of	the	sanction	imposed	at	first	instance,	provided	that	any	new	
sanction must be within the permitted range of sanctions set out 
in the table in Article 7.3. 
 8.3.4 Appeal hearings pursuant to this Article 8 should be completed 
expeditiously. Save where all parties agree or fairness requires 
otherwise, the appeal hearing shall be commenced no later than 
thirty (30) days after the appointment of the Appeal Panel. 
 8.3.5  The Appeal Panel shall have the power to order some or all of the 
costs of the appeal proceedings (including the costs of holding 
the hearing, any interpretation costs, the legal and/or travel/
accommodation costs of the Appeal Panel and/or any other relevant 
parties) to be paid by the appealing party if it considers that such 
party has acted, spuriously, frivolously or otherwise in bad faith. 
 8.3.6 Any decision made by the Appeal Panel under this Article 8, shall 
be	the	full,	final	and	complete	disposition	of	the	matter	and	will	
be binding on all parties. ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15 15
15.20 15.21ICC’s Senior Manager - Umpires and Referees. The person appointed by the ICC 
from time to time to act as the ICC’s Senior Manager - Umpires and Referees (or his/
her designee).
International Match. Each of the following (in men’s and women’s cricket): (a) any 
Test Match, One Day International Match or Twenty20 International Match; (b) any 
Match played as part of an ICC Event; (c) any International Tour Match; or (d) any 
other Match organised or sanctioned by the ICC from time to time to which the ICC 
deems it appropriate that the Anti-Discrimination Code should apply.
International Tour Match. Any cricket match of any format and duration in length 
played between a representative team of a National Cricket Federation and any 
domestic, guest or invitational team. 
Judicial Commissioner. The independent person appointed by the ICC from the 
ICC Code of Conduct Commission, to perform the functions assigned to the Judicial 
Commissioner under the Anti-Discrimination Code. 
Match. A cricket match of any format and duration in length played between 
representative	teams	(male	or	female)	of	two	National	Cricket	Federations	affiliated 	
to the ICC. 
Match Referee. The independent person appointed by the ICC (or any other 
relevant	party)	as	the	official	match	referee	for	a	designated	International	Match,	
whether such Match Referee carries out his/her functions remotely or otherwise. 
Where a Match Referee is not physically present at a particular Match, he/she  
may be assisted in the administrative performance of his/her duties under this  
Anti-Discrimination	Code	by	any	official	‘Match	Manager’	who	may	be	appointed	  
to	officiate	at	such	International	Match.	
National Cricket Federation. A national or regional entity which is a member of or 
is recognised by the ICC as the entity governing the sport of cricket in a country (or 
collective group of countries associated for cricket purposes). 
Notice of Charge. As	defined	in	Article	4.4.
One Day International Match. As	defined	by	the	ICC	Classification	of	Official	Cricket. 	
Participant. Any Player, Player Support Personnel, Umpire, Match Referee or Umpire  
Support Personnel.
Player. Any cricketer who is selected in any playing or touring team or squad that 
is chosen to represent a National Cricket Federation in any International Match or 
series of International Matches.
Player Support Personnel. Any	coach,	trainer,	manager,	selector,	team	official, 	
doctor, physiotherapist or any other person employed by, representing or otherwise 
affiliated	to	a	playing/	touring	team	or	squad	that	is	chosen	to	represent	a	National 	
Cricket Federation in any International Match or series of International Matches. 
Report.	As	defined	in	Article	3.1.
Suspension Points. The weighting points used to determine the period of 
suspension imposed against any Player or Player Support Personnel pursuant to 
Article 7 of the Anti-Discrimination Code. APPENDIX 1 
DEFINITIONS
Appeal Panel. A panel of three persons appointed by the ICC from the members 
of the ICC Code of Conduct Commission, to perform the functions assigned 
to the Appeal Panel under the Anti-Discrimination Code. Each member of the 
Appeal Panel shall be independent of the ICC, which may provide reasonable 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses to such members.
Anti-Racism Code. The ICC’s Anti-Racism Code for Participants, as it was in force 
from time to time, being the predecessor version of the Anti-Discrimination Code.
Code of Conduct. The ICC’s Code of Conduct for Players and Player Support 
Personnel, as amended from time to time.
Conciliator. An independent expert, trained in mediation and, where possible, with 
specialist expertise in the area of race relations (or such other expertise as may 
be relevant to the nature of any alleged offence), who is appointed by the ICC to 
perform the functions assigned to the Conciliator under the Anti-Discrimination Code. 
Effective Date. As	defined	in	Article	10.4.
ICC. The International Cricket Council or its designee. 
ICC’s Anti-Discrimination Policy for International Cricket. The ICC’s Anti-
Discrimination Policy for International Cricket, as amended from time to time.
ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer.	The person appointed by the ICC from time to time 
to	act	as	its	Chief	Executive	Officer	(or	his/her	designee).	
ICC’s	Classification	of	Official	Cricket.	The	ICC’s	Official	Classification	of	Official	
Cricket, as amended from time to time.
ICC Code of Conduct Commission. An	official	committee	of	the	ICC	established,	
amongst other things, to provide independent enquiries, investigations and rulings 
in relation to matters brought to its attention pursuant to the Code of Conduct 
and/or Anti-Discrimination Code. Each member of the ICC Code of Conduct 
Commission shall be independent of the ICC, which may provide reasonable 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses to such members. 
ICC Events. Means each of the following, and each match played as part of 
the following (men’s and women’s, as applicable): (a) the ICC Cricket World 
Cup, together with any qualifying events thereto; (b) the ICC Twenty20 World 
Cup, together with any qualifying events thereto; (c) the ICC Men’s World Test 
Championship Final, (d) the ICC Under 19 Cricket World Cup, together with any 
qualifying events thereto; (e) the ICC Intercontinental Cup; (f) any successor to or 
replacement	for	any	of	the	foregoing	events,	as	specified	by	the	ICC	and	(g)	any	
other match or event organised or sanctioned by the ICC from time to time to 
which the ICC deems it appropriate that the Anti-Discrimination Code should apply. 
ICC’s General Counsel. The person appointed by the ICC from time to time to act as 
the ICC’s General Counsel (or his/her designee).ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15 15
15.22 15.23APPENDIX 2
EXPEDITED PROCEDURE FOR OFFENCES UNDER  
THE ANTI-RACISM CODE OCCURING DURING AN ICC EVENT
Where an offence under the Anti-Discrimination Code is alleged to have occurred 
during, or in relation to, an International Match that is played as part of an ICC 
Event (except the ICC Intercontinental Cup or the ICC World Cricket League 
Championship in which no expedited procedure is to be applied), the provisions of 
the Anti-Discrimination Code shall apply in full save for the amendments described 
in this Appendix 2, which are deemed to be made in order to ensure that any 
matters arising can be dealt with expediently: 
ARTICLE 3 – REPORTING AN ALLEGED OFFENCE  
UNDER THE ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
	 –	 Article	3.2	-	“seven	(7)	days”	is	replaced	with	“thirty-six	(36)	hours”.	
ARTICLE 4 – NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE
	 –	 Article	4.1	-	“five	(5)	business	days”	is	replaced	with	“forty-eight	(48)	hours”.
ARTICLE 5 – THE DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE 
	 –	 Article	5.1	is	replaced	in	its	entirety	with	the	following:
 5.1 Disciplinary Procedure during an ICC Event
  Where a matter proceeds to a hearing under Article 4.5.2 or 4.5.3, then 
the case shall be referred to a Judicial Commissioner for adjudication in 
accordance with the following procedure:
 5.1.1 As soon as reasonably possible, the ICC shall appoint one 
member from the ICC’s Code of Conduct Commission to sit as 
the Judicial Commissioner to hear the case sitting alone. The 
appointed member shall be independent of the parties, have 
had no prior involvement with the case and shall not, unless 
otherwise agreed between the parties, be from a country 
participating in the International Match during, or in relation to 
which, the alleged offence was committed. 
 5.1.2 Subject to the discretion of the Judicial Commissioner to order 
otherwise for good cause shown by the Participant, the hearing 
will	take	place	at	the	time	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge	
(which should, in the absence of exceptional circumstances, 
be no more than forty-eight (48) hours after receipt by the 
Participant of the Notice of Charge) and in the country in which 
the alleged offence was committed. For the avoidance of 
doubt, nothing in this Article 5.1.2 prevents a hearing from being 
convened at a time during which the International Match during 
which the alleged offence took place, remains in progress. Team Captain or Vice Captain. The	official	captain	or	vice-captain	of	any	team	
participating in a Match.
Team Manager. The	official	manager	of	any	team	participating	in	a	Match,	or,	where 	
a	team	does	not	have	an	official	manager,	the	person	fulfilling	the	functions	of	the 	
team manager.
Test Match. As	defined	by	the	ICC	Classification	of	Official	Cricket.
Twenty20 International Match. As	defined	by	the	ICC	Classification	of	Official	Cricket.
Umpire.	Any	umpire	(including	any	on-field	umpire,	television	umpire,	third	or	
fourth	umpire)	appointed	to	officiate	in	any	Match.
Umpire Support Personnel. Any	technical	officials	(for	example,	and	without	
limitation,	any	official	with	responsibility	for	operating	the	communication	
equipment for Umpires and Match Referees during a Match) or umpire coaches 
appointed (by the ICC or any other relevant party) to support the Umpires and/or 
Match Referees in their appointments to any Match or any other person appointed 
by the ICC to support Umpires and Match Referees.ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS 15 15
15.24 15.25 5.1.8 The non-attendance of the Participant or his/her representative 
at the hearing, after proper notice of the hearing has been 
provided, shall not prevent the Judicial Commissioner from 
proceeding with the hearing in his/her absence, whether or not 
any written submissions are made on his/her behalf.
 5.1.9 At the end of a hearing, where the Judicial Commissioner 
considers that further evidence is necessary or further time is 
required to consider the evidence that has been presented, he/
she shall adjourn the hearing for an appropriate period of time 
and make such directions as may be necessary. 
 5.1.10 Alternatively, at the end of a hearing: 
 5.1.10.1 brought under Article 4.5.2: 
 (a) as soon as possible after the conclusion of the hearing 
(and, in any event, no later than twenty-four (24) 
hours thereafter), the Judicial Commissioner will 
confirm	the	Participant’s	admission	that	he/she	had 	
committed an offence under the Anti-Discrimination 
Code and announce his/her decision in writing, with 
reasons, setting out: (a) what sanctions, if any, are to 
be imposed; (b) the date that any period of suspension 
shall come into force and effect; and (c) any rights of 
appeal that may exist pursuant to Article 8.
  5.1.10.2  brought under Article 4.5.3 (or where the Participant has 
failed to respond in a timely fashion to the Notice of Charge): 
 (a) the Judicial Commissioner shall adjourn the hearing 
(for a period of no less than ten (10) minutes and no 
more than two (2) hours), following which he/she 
will reconvene the hearing and verbally announce 
his/her	finding	as	to	whether	an	offence	under	the 	
Anti-Discrimination Code has been committed;
 (b) where the Judicial Commissioner determines that 
an offence under the Anti-Discrimination Code has 
been committed, the Participant may request a short 
adjournment (of no more than thirty (30) minutes) 
to prepare any submissions that he/she might wish 
to make in relation to the appropriate sanction that 
ought to be applied; and 
 (c) as soon as possible after the conclusion of the 
hearing (and, in any event, no later than twenty-four 
(24) hours thereafter), the Judicial Commissioner 
will announce his/her decision in writing, with 
reasons,	setting	out:	(a)	the	finding	as	to	whether 	
an offence under the Anti-Discrimination Code had 
been committed; (b) what sanctions, if any, are to be 
imposed; (c) the date that any period of suspension 
shall come into force and effect; and (d) any rights of 
appeal that may exist pursuant to Article 8. 5.1.3 The procedure followed at the hearing shall be at the discretion of 
the Judicial Commissioner, provided that the hearing is conducted 
in a manner which offers the Participant with a fair and reasonable 
opportunity to present evidence (including the right to call and 
to question witnesses by telephone or video-conference where 
necessary), address the Judicial Commissioner and present his/
her case. For the avoidance of any doubt, in accordance with 
Article 6.2, unless the relevant party agrees otherwise, no evidence 
shall be adduced, given or accepted during any hearing before 
the Judicial Commissioner in relation to anything that may have 
been	said	or	disclosed	during	any	part	of	any	‘without	prejudice’ 	
conciliation process carried out pursuant to Article 4.3. 
 5.1.4  The hearing before the Judicial Commissioner shall be in English, and 
certified	English	translations	shall	be	submitted	of	any	non-English 	
documents put before the Judicial Commissioner. The cost of the 
translation shall be borne by the party offering the document(s). 
If required by the Judicial Commissioner (at his/her discretion), 
the ICC shall make arrangements to have the hearing recorded or 
transcribed. If requested by the Participant, the ICC shall also arrange 
for an interpreter to attend the hearing. Such costs of transcription 
and interpretation shall be paid by the ICC. 
 5.1.5 Where video evidence of the alleged offence is available at the 
hearing before the Judicial Commissioner, then it may be relied upon 
by any party, provided that all other parties shall have the right to 
make	such	representations	in	relation	to	it	that	they	may	see	fit.
 5.1.6 Unless exceptional circumstances apply, each of the following 
individuals must attend any hearing before the Judicial 
Commissioner: (a) the Participant who has been charged with the 
alleged offence; (b) the person who lodged the Report (or, in the 
case	of	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer,	his/her	representative/
nominee); and (c) a representative of the ICC’s Legal Department. 
Where	any	such	individual	has	a	compelling	justification	for	his/
her non-attendance, then they shall be given the opportunity to 
participate in the hearing before the Judicial Commissioner by 
telephone or video conference (if available). Without prejudice 
to the Participant’s ability to call and to question such witnesses 
as may be necessary and/or to be represented by such other 
person of his/her own choosing pursuant to Article 5.1.7, where the 
Participant charged is a Player or Player Support Personnel, one of 
the Captain, Vice-Captain or Team Manager of the team that the 
Player or Player Support Personnel represents may also attend a 
hearing before the Judicial Commissioner to provide additional 
support and assistance to the Player or Player Support Personnel. 
 5.1.7 Each of the individuals described in Article 5.1.6(a) and (b) shall 
have the right (at his/her or its own expense) to be represented 
at the hearing before the Judicial Commissioner by such 
representative (including legal counsel) of his/her or its own 
choosing. Where the person lodging the Report is an Umpire 
or	Match	Referee	that	officiated	in	the	International	Match	in	
question	or	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer,	then	such	person	
shall be entitled to be represented prior to, and during, the 
hearing (if he/she considers necessary) by a representative of the 
ICC’s Legal Department. ICC ANTI-DISCRIMINATION CODE 
FOR PARTICIPANTS15
15.26 5.1.11 The Judicial Commissioner shall have the discretion to announce 
the substance of his/her decision prior to the issue of the written 
reasoned decision referred to in Article 5.1.10. 
 5.1.12 A copy of the written reasoned decision will be provided to the 
Participant, where applicable, the CEO of the Player or Player 
Support Personnel’s National Cricket Federation and the ICC’s 
General Counsel .
 5.1.13 Subject only to the rights of appeal under Article 8, the Judicial 
Commissioner’s	decision	shall	be	the	full,	final	and	complete	
disposition of the matter and will be binding on all parties.
ARTICLE 8 – APPEALS 
	 –	 Article	8.3	–	“seven	(7)	days”	is	replaced	with	“forty-eight	(48)	hours”.	
	 –	 Article	 8.3.1	–	“forty-eight	 (48)	hours”	is	replaced	with	“twenty-four	 (24)	hours”.	
	 –	 Article	8.3.4	–	“thirty	(30)	days”	is	replaced	with	“seventy-two	(72)	hours”.	
16.1ICC ANTI-DOPING CODE
The ICC has a zero-tolerance approach to doping in cricket in support of its 
continued efforts to: (a) maintain the integrity of the sport of cricket; (b) protect 
the health and rights of all participants in the sport of cricket; and (c) keep the sport 
of cricket free from doping.
Consistent	with	the	WADA	Code,	the	ICC’s	Anti-Doping	Code	(the	‘ Code’) ensures 
cricket	plays	its	part	in	the	global	fight	against	drugs	in	sport.	All	international	
cricketers	(as	defined	in	the	Code)	are	bound	by	the	Code	and	are	required	to	sign	a	
Consent and Agreement form acknowledging that the Code applies to them.
Under the Code, all international cricketers can be subject to both In and Out-of-
Competition testing by the ICC any day, anytime, 365 days of the year.
Whilst it remains the responsibility of each National Cricket Federation to educate 
their own international cricketers in all aspects of anti-doping and to ensure that 
such cricketers are aware of the Code and that it applies to them, it is ultimately 
each cricketer’s personal responsibility to:
1  acquaint him/herself, and ensure that each person from whom he/she 
takes advice (including medical personnel) is acquainted with all of the 
requirements of the Code;
2  know what constitutes an anti-doping rule violation under the Code and what 
substances and methods have been included on the Prohibited List;
3  ensure that anything he/she ingests or uses, as well as any medical treatment 
he/she receives, does not give rise to an anti-doping rule violation under the 
Code; and
4  make him/herself available upon request for Testing, both In-Competition and 
Out-of-Competition.
5   comply with the ICC’s Whereabouts Requirements for Out-of-Competition 
Testing (a copy of which can be found in the anti-doping section of the ICC’s 
website: www.icc-cricket.com)	where	applicable,	including	by	filing	and	
maintaining accurate and relevant up-to-date information as required.
The full version of the ICC’s Anti-Doping Code can be found in the anti-doping 
section of the ICC’s website: www.icc-cricket.com and all players are strongly 
recommended to review the Code in its entirety. In addition, the ICC has also 
developed numerous guidance notes, educational materials and documentation,  
all of which are also available on the website.
Finally, if any player, player support personnel or National Cricket Federation has 
any questions, concerns or comments in relation to any aspect of anti-doping, 
including the Code, then they should contact the ICC’s Anti-Doping team on the 
following details:
ICC Anti-Doping 
Telephone:	+	971	4	382	8800	(office	hours,	+	4	GMT) 
Mobile: + 971 50 554 5891 (24 hours) 
E-mail:	anti-doping@icc-cricket.com	(confidential)
16
ICC ANTI-DOPING CODE
17.1ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS
CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 INTRODUCTION, SCOPE AND APPLICATION 17.2
ARTICLE 2 OFFENCES UNDER THE ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE 17.7
ARTICLE 3 STANDARD OF PROOF AND EVIDENCE 17.12
ARTICLE 4 INVESTIGATIONS AND NOTICE OF CHARGE 17.12
ARTICLE 5 THE DISCIPLINARY PROCESS 17.17
ARTICLE 6 SANCTIONS 17.21
ARTICLE 7 APPEALS 17.25
ARTICLE 8 PUBLIC DISCLOSURE AND CONFIDENTIALITY 17.26
ARTICLE 9 RECOGNITION OF DECISIONS 17.26
ARTICLE 10 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS 17.27
ARTICLE 11 AMENDMENT AND INTERPRETATION  
 OF THE ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE 17.27
APPENDIX 1 DEFINITIONS 17.28
For information regarding the ICC Anti-Corruption Code, please contact:
The ICC’s Anti-Corruption Unit 
International Cricket Council 
PO Box 500 070 
Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Tel (switchboard): +971 4 382 8800 
Confidential	anti-corruption	direct	line: +971 4 341 7225  
Confidential	anti-corruption	facsimile: +971 4 340 4856 
Confidential	anti-corruption	e-mail:	contactACU@icc-cricket.com
17
ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION  
CODE FOR PARTICIPANTS
ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS17
17.2
 1.4 This Anti-Corruption Code applies to all Participants. For these purposes, 
a “Participant” is: 
 1.4.1 any cricketer who: 
 1.4.1.1 is selected (or who has been selected in the preceding 
twenty-four (24) months) to participate in an 
International Match and/or a Domestic Match for any 
playing or touring club, team or squad that is a member 
of,	affiliated	to,	or	otherwise	falls	within	the	jurisdiction	
of, a National Cricket Federation; and/or 
 1.4.1.2 is subject to an unexpired period of Ineligibility imposed on 
him/her pursuant to this Anti-Corruption Code and/or any 
anti-corruption rules of any National Cricket Federation 
 (a “Player”); and/or
	 1.4.2	 any	coach,	trainer,	manager,	selector,	team	owner	or	official,	
doctor, physiotherapist or any other person who:
	 1.4.2.1	 is	employed	by,	represents	or	is	otherwise	affiliated	
to (or who has been employed by, has represented 
or	has	been	otherwise	affiliated	to	in	the	preceding	
twenty-four (24) months) a team that participates in 
International Matches and/or a playing or touring club, 
team or squad that participates in Domestic Matches 
and	is	a	member	of,	affiliated	to,	or	otherwise	falls	within	
the jurisdiction of, a National Cricket Federation; and/or 
 1.4.2.2 is subject to an unexpired period of Ineligibility  
imposed on him/her pursuant to this Anti-Corruption 
Code and/or any anti-corruption rules of any National  
Cricket Federation
  (a “Player Support Personnel”); and/or
	 1.4.3	 any	ICC	Official,	Match	Referee,	Pitch	Curator,	Player	Agent,	
Umpire or Umpire Support Personnel
NOTE: For the avoidance of doubt, the ICC’s jurisdiction to take  
action against a Participant under this Anti-Corruption Code is 
limited, subject to the provisions of Article 1.7 below, to Corrupt 
Conduct taking place in, or in relation to, International Matches. 
 1.5 Each Participant is automatically bound by this Anti-Corruption Code as 
soon as he/she becomes a Participant. From that point, he/she shall be 
deemed to have agreed:
 1.5.1 not to engage in Corrupt Conduct in respect of any International 
Match, wherever it is held and whether or not he/she is 
personally participating or involved in any way in it; 
 1.5.2 that it is his/her personal responsibility to familiarise him/herself 
with all of the requirements of the Anti-Corruption Code, and to 
comply with those requirements (where applicable);ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17
17.3ARTICLE 1 – INTRODUCTION, SCOPE AND APPLICATION 
 1.1 The ICC has adopted this Anti-Corruption Code in recognition of the 
following fundamental sporting imperatives: 
	 1.1.1	 All	cricket	matches	are	to	be	contested	on	a	level	playing-field,	
with the outcome to be determined solely by the respective 
merits of the competing teams and to remain uncertain until the 
cricket match is completed. This is the essential characteristic 
that gives sport its unique appeal.
	 1.1.2	 Public	confidence	in	the	authenticity	and	integrity	of	the	sporting	
contest	is	therefore	vital.	If	that	confidence	is	undermined,	then	
the very essence of cricket will be shaken to the core. 
 1.1.3 Advancing technology and increasing popularity have led to a 
substantial increase in the amount, and the sophistication, of 
betting on cricket matches. The development of new betting 
products, including spread-betting and betting exchanges, as 
well as internet and phone accounts that allow people to place 
a bet at any time and from any place, even after a cricket match 
has started, have all increased the potential for the development 
of corrupt betting practices. That, in turn, increases the risk that 
attempts will be made to involve Participants in such practices. 
This can create a perception that the integrity of the sport is 
under threat. 
 1.1.4 Furthermore, it is of the nature of this type of misconduct that 
it is carried out under cover and in secret, thereby creating 
significant	challenges	for	the	ICC	in	the	enforcement	of	rules	of	
conduct. As a consequence, the ICC needs to be empowered to 
seek information from and share information with competent 
authorities and other relevant third parties, and to require 
Participants to cooperate fully with all investigations and 
requests for information.
 1.1.5 The ICC is committed to taking every step in its power (a) to 
prevent corrupt practices undermining the integrity of the sport 
of	cricket,	including	any	efforts	to	influence	improperly	the	
outcome or any other aspect of any Match; and (b) to preserve 
public	confidence	in	the	readiness,	willingness	and	ability	of	the	
ICC and its National Cricket Federations to protect the sport from 
such corrupt practices. 
 1.2 The Anti-Corruption Code is to be interpreted and applied by reference 
to the fundamental sporting imperatives described in Article 1.1 (including, 
without limitation, where an issue arises that is not expressly addressed 
in the Anti-Corruption Code). Such interpretation and application shall 
take precedence over any strict legal or technical interpretations of the 
Anti-Corruption Code that may otherwise be proposed.
 1.3 Unless otherwise indicated, references in the Anti-Corruption Code 
to Articles and Appendices are to articles and appendices of the Anti-
Corruption Code. Words in italicised text in the Anti-Corruption Code 
are	defined	terms.	Unless	set	out	in	the	Articles	below,	their	respective	
definitions	are	set	out	in	Appendix	1.	ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.4 17.5 1.7.2 Where a Participant’s alleged Corrupt Conduct would amount 
solely to a violation of the anti-corruption rules of a National 
Cricket Federation (whether such Corrupt Conduct actually 
relates to a Domestic Match or not), the relevant National Cricket 
Federation will have the exclusive right to take action against the 
Participant under its own anti-corruption rules. 
 1.7.3 Where a Participant’s alleged Corrupt Conduct would amount  
to a violation of (a) this Anti-Corruption Code and one or more  
of the anti-corruption rules of any National Cricket Federation  
or (b) two or more of the anti-corruption rules of any National 
Cricket Federation:
 1.7.3.1 if the alleged Corrupt Conduct relates solely to one or 
more International Matches (other than International 
Tour Matches), the ICC will have the exclusive right to 
take action against the Participant under this Anti-
Corruption Code for such Corrupt Conduct; 
 1.7.3.2 if the alleged Corrupt Conduct relates solely to one or 
more International Tour Matches, then, unless otherwise 
agreed between the ICC and the relevant National 
Cricket Federation(s):
 1.7.3.2.1 the ICC will have the priority right and 
responsibility to take action under this 
Anti-Corruption Code against any Participant 
who participated on behalf of, or who was in 
any way associated with, or whose Corrupt 
Conduct was related to, the participating 
representative team of a Full Member (or 
Associate Member with Test and/or ODI or  
T20I Status) in the International Tour Match; 
 1.7.3.2.2 the National Cricket Federation in whose 
jurisdiction the match(es) was/were played 
will have the priority right and responsibility 
to take action under its anti-corruption rules 
against any Participant who participated on 
behalf of, or who was in any way associated 
with, or whose Corrupt Conduct was related to, 
the participating domestic, guest or invitational 
team in the International Tour Match;
 1.7.3.3 if the alleged Corrupt Conduct relates to one or more 
International Matches and one or more Domestic 
Matches, the ICC and the relevant National Cricket 
Federation(s) shall agree between them which of 
them shall take action (and, where applicable, in which 
order) against any relevant Participant for such Corrupt 
Conduct and, in the absence of agreement, the ICC 
shall take action solely with respect to Corrupt Conduct 
relating to the relevant International Matches and the 
National Cricket Federation(s) shall take action solely 
with respect to Corrupt Conduct relating to the relevant 
Domestic Matches;  1.5.3 to submit to the jurisdiction of the ICC to investigate apparent or 
suspected Corrupt Conduct that would amount to a violation of 
the Anti-Corruption Code; 
 1.5.4 to submit to the jurisdiction of any Anti-Corruption Tribunal 
convened under the Anti-Corruption Code to hear and 
determine, (a) any allegation by the ICC that the Participant has 
committed Corrupt Conduct under the Anti-Corruption Code; 
and (b) any related issue (e.g., any challenge to the validity of the 
charges or to the jurisdiction of the ICC or the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal, as applicable);
 1.5.5 to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the CAS to hear and 
determine appeals made pursuant to this Anti-Corruption Code;
 1.5.6 not to bring any proceedings in any court or other forum that are 
inconsistent with the foregoing submissions to the jurisdiction of 
the aforementioned tribunals and the CAS; 
 1.5.7 for purposes of applicable data protection and other laws and for 
all other purposes, to the collection, processing, disclosure and 
use of information relating to him/herself and his/her activities, 
including personal information relating to him/herself and his/
her activities, to the extent expressly permitted under the terms 
of	the	Anti-Corruption	Code	(and	that	he/she	shall	confirm	such	
agreement in writing upon demand); and
 1.5.8 to waive and forfeit any rights, defences and privileges provided 
by any law in any jurisdiction to withhold, or reject the provision of, 
information requested by the ACU General Manager in a Demand.
 1.6 Without prejudice to Article 1.5, a Participant shall also be bound by all 
National Cricket Federations’ anti-corruption rules: 
 1.6.1 not to commit Corrupt Conduct as set out under those rules; and 
	 1.6.2	 to	submit	to	the	jurisdiction	of	first	instance	and	appeal	hearing	
panels convened under those rules to hear and determine 
allegations of breach of such rules and related issues. 
NOTE: Copies of the anti-corruption rules of the National Cricket 
Federations and this Anti-Corruption Code can be found on the 
ICC Website. The substance of each set of anti-corruption rules 
(including what constitutes Corrupt Conduct and the sanctions for 
such Corrupt Conduct) of National Cricket Federations is materially 
the same as this Anti-Corruption Code. 
 1.7 For the avoidance of any doubt:
 1.7.1 Where a Participant’s alleged Corrupt Conduct would amount 
solely to a violation of this Anti-Corruption Code (whether such 
Corrupt Conduct actually relates to an International Match or 
not), the ICC will have the exclusive right to take action against 
the Participant under this Anti-Corruption Code for such  
Corrupt Conduct;ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.6 17.7 1.9 Each Participant shall continue to be bound by and required to comply 
with	the	Anti-Corruption	Code	until	he/she	no	longer	qualifies	as	a 	
Participant (the “End Date”). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the ICC shall 
continue to have jurisdiction over him/her under the Anti-Corruption 
Code after the End Date in respect of matters taking place prior to the 
End Date; and he/she shall continue to be bound by and required to 
comply with this Anti-Corruption Code after the End Date with respect to 
the investigation, prosecution and adjudication of such matters. 
 1.10 Without prejudice to any of the foregoing, the ICC (through the ACU) and the 
National Cricket Federations shall be responsible for promoting awareness of 
and education regarding the Anti-Corruption Code amongst all Participants.
 1.11 This Anti-Corruption Code and the anti-corruption rules of the National 
Cricket Federations are not criminal laws but rather disciplinary rules of 
professional conduct for those involved in the sport of cricket. However, 
Corrupt Conduct may also be a criminal offence and/or a breach of other 
applicable laws or regulations. The Anti-Corruption Code is intended to 
supplement such laws and regulations. It is not intended, and should 
not be interpreted, construed or applied, to prejudice or undermine in 
any way the application of such laws and regulations. Participants must 
comply with all applicable laws and regulations at all times.
 1.12 For the avoidance of any doubt, nothing in this Anti-Corruption Code is 
intended in any way: 
 1.12.1 to replace or amend the ICC’s Policy on Member Associations 
with Betting Companies, which shall remain in full force and 
effect and binding at all times on all relevant parties; 
 1.12.2  to replace or amend the ICC’s Minimum Standards for Players and 
Match	Officials	Area which shall remain in full force and effect 
and binding at all times on all relevant parties; 
 1.12.3 to replace or amend the ICC’s Clothing and Equipment Rules 
and Regulations, which shall remain in full force and effect and 
binding at all times on all relevant parties.
ARTICLE 2– OFFENCES UNDER THE ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE
The	conduct	described	in	the	sub-Articles	set	out	in	Articles	2.1	–	2.4,	if	committed	
by a Participant, shall amount to an offence by such Participant under this Anti-
Corruption Code: 
 2.1 Corruption:
	 2.1.1	 Fixing	or	contriving	in	any	way	or	otherwise	influencing improperly, 
or	being	a	party	to	any	agreement	or	effort	to	fix	or	contrive	in 	
any	way	or	otherwise	influence	improperly,	the	result,	progress, 	
conduct or any other aspect of any International Match, including 
(without limitation) by deliberately underperforming therein.
NOTE: It shall not be an offence under Article 2.1.1 to manipulate 
International Matches for strategic or tactical reasons (such as where 
a Player performs in a certain manner to enable his team to lose a 
pool Match in an ICC Event in order to affect the standings of other 
teams in that ICC Event). Instead, such conduct is prohibited under 
the ICC’s Code of Conduct for Players and Player Support Personnel 
and must be dealt with according to the procedures set out therein. 1.7.3.4 if the alleged Corrupt Conduct relates solely to one or 
more Domestic Matches, the National Cricket Federation 
in whose jurisdiction the Domestic Match(es) was/were 
played will have the priority right and responsibility 
to take action under its anti-corruption rules against 
any relevant Participant for such Corrupt Conduct 
(irrespective of the nationality or place of residence of 
the Participant), but where it fails to take any action 
under its anti-corruption rules within 180 days of 
becoming aware of the Corrupt Conduct or agrees to 
defer to the National Cricket Federation to which the 
Participant	is	affiliated,	the	National	Cricket	Federation	
to	which	the	Participant	is	affiliated	may	instead	take	
action against the Participant in respect of such Corrupt 
Conduct under its anti-corruption rules provided it 
has	first	given	notice	in	writing	of	such	to	the	National	
Cricket Federation in whose jurisdiction the Domestic 
Match(es) was/were played; 
 1.7.3.5 if the alleged Corrupt Conduct relates to an offence under 
any of Article 2.4 of the Anti-Corruption Code (or any 
analogous provision in the anti-corruption rules of any 
National Cricket Federation) and does not in any way relate 
to either an International Match or a Domestic Match, the 
ICC and the relevant National Cricket Federation(s) shall 
agree between them which of them shall take action (and, 
where applicable, in which order) against any relevant 
Participant for such Corrupt Conduct provided, however, 
that in the absence of agreement, the ICC shall not take 
action with respect to the relevant Corrupt Conduct unless 
the relevant Participant has played in an International Match 
in the previous twelve (12) months prior to the date the 
alleged offence was committed.
 1.8 Where the ICC and/or any relevant National Cricket Federation  
agree between them, in accordance with the principles described in 
Article 1.7, above, that in any particular circumstances it would be more 
appropriate for:
 1.8.1 the ICC to take action under the Anti-Corruption Code in relation 
to any Corrupt Conduct relating to one or more Domestic Matches 
and one or more International Matches, then all references in the 
Anti-Corruption	Code	to	‘International	Match’	shall	be	deemed	to 	
be	extended	to	include	the	relevant	‘Domestic	Match’;	or 	
 1.8.2 any relevant National Cricket Federation to take action under 
its own anti-corruption rules in relation to any Corrupt Conduct 
relating to one or more International Matches and one or more 
Domestic Matches played within the jurisdiction of another 
National Cricket Federation, then all references in its own 
anti-corruption	rules	to	‘Domestic	Matches’	shall	be	deemed	to	
be	extended	to	include	the	relevant	‘International	Match’	or	such	
other	relevant	‘Domestic	Match’.	ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.8 17.9 2.4 General:
 2.4.1 Giving or providing to any Participant any gift, payment, hospitality 
or	other	benefit	(whether	of	a	monetary	value	or	otherwise)	either 	
(a) for the purpose of procuring (directly or indirectly) any breach 
of the Anti-Corruption Code, or (b) in circumstances that could 
bring him/her or the sport of cricket into disrepute.
 2.4.2 Failing to disclose to the ACU (without unnecessary delay) the 
receipt	of	any	gift,	payment,	hospitality	or	other	benefit,	(a)	that 	
the Participant knew or should have known was given to him/her 
to procure (directly or indirectly) any breach of the Anti-Corruption 
Code, or (b) that was made or given in circumstances that could 
bring the Participant or the sport of cricket into disrepute.
 2.4.3 Failing to disclose to the ACU (without unnecessary delay) all 
gifts (whether monetary or otherwise), hospitality and/or other 
non-contractual	benefits	offered	to	a	Participant	that	have	a	
value of US$750 or more, whether or not the circumstances 
set out in Article 2.4.2 are present, save that there shall be no 
obligation to disclose any (i) personal gifts, hospitality and/
or	other	non-contractual	benefits	offered	by	or	on	behalf	of	
any close friend or relative of the Participant, (ii) any food or 
beverage gifts or (iii) cricket hospitality gifts in connection with 
Matches the Participant is participating in. 
NOTE: For the purposes of any disclosures made pursuant to either 
Article 2.4.2 or 2.4.3 such disclosures must be made to the ACU, which 
shall keep a register of all such disclosures, and will share the content 
of such register (or any part of it) with the relevant National Cricket 
Federation(s) on a quarterly basis, or unless otherwise agreed. 
 2.4.4 Failing to disclose to the ACU (without unnecessary delay) 
full details of any approaches or invitations received by the 
Participant to engage in Corrupt Conduct under the Anti-
Corruption Code.
NOTE:	It	is	acknowledged	that	the	fight	against	corruption	requires 	
prompt reporting of all such approaches and any unnecessary delay 
in doing so may undermine the effectiveness with which the ACU 
and other relevant anti-corruption bodies can protect the integrity 
of the sport. It is acknowledged that the assessment of whether 
there had been ‘unnecessary delay’ in each case will depend on its 
own circumstances, but it is always unacceptable (and will therefore 
constitute ‘unnecessary delay’) for a Participant to wait until after the 
match in respect of which he/she was invited to engage in Corrupt 
Conduct before reporting that approach to the ACU.
NOTE: A Participant shall not discharge his burden under this Article 
unless and until the required disclosure has been made directly to the 
ACU	by	such	Participant.	It	is	not	sufficient	for	such	disclosure	to	be 	
made instead to any other third party, including any player, club or 
team	official,	or	National	Cricket	Federation	representative. 2.1.2 Ensuring for Betting or other corrupt purposes the occurrence of 
a particular incident in an International Match.
 2.1.3 Seeking, accepting, offering or agreeing to accept any bribe or 
other	Reward	to:	(a)	fix	or	to	contrive	in	any	way	or	otherwise	to	
influence	improperly	the	result,	progress,	conduct	or	any	other	
aspect of any International Match; or (b) ensure for Betting or 
other corrupt purposes the occurrence of a particular incident in 
an International Match.
 2.1.4 Directly or indirectly soliciting, inducing, enticing, instructing, 
persuading, encouraging or intentionally facilitating any Participant 
to breach any of the foregoing provisions of this Article 2.1. 
 2.2 Betting: 
 2.2.1 Placing, accepting, laying or otherwise entering into any Bet with 
any other party (whether individual, company or otherwise) in 
relation to the result, progress, conduct or any other aspect of 
any International Match. 
 2.2.2 Directly or indirectly soliciting, inducing, enticing, instructing, 
persuading, encouraging, intentionally facilitating or authorising 
any other party to enter into a Bet in relation to the result, 
progress, conduct or any other aspect of any International Match. 
 2.3 Misuse of Inside Information:
 2.3.1 Using any Inside Information for Betting purposes in relation to 
any International Match. 
 2.3.2 Disclosing Inside Information to any person where the Participant 
knew or should have known that such disclosure might lead to 
the information being used in relation to Betting in relation to 
any International Match. 
NOTE: Any potential offence under this Article will be considered on 
its own set of facts and the particular circumstances surrounding any 
relevant disclosure. For example, it may be an offence under this clause 
to disclose Inside Information: (a) to journalists or other members of the 
media; and/or (b) on social networking websites where the Participant 
knew or should have known that such disclosure might lead to the 
information being used in relation to Betting. However, nothing in 
this Article is intended to prohibit any such disclosure made within 
a personal relationship (such as to a member of a family) where it is 
reasonable for the Participant to expect that such information can be 
disclosed	in	confidence	and	will	not	be	subsequently	used	for	Betting. 	
 2.3.3 Directly or indirectly soliciting, inducing, enticing, persuading, 
encouraging or intentionally facilitating any Participant to breach 
any of the foregoing provisions of this Article 2.3. ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.10 17.11 2.5 For the purposes of this Article 2: 
 2.5.1 Any attempt by a Participant, or any agreement by a Participant 
with any other person, to act in a manner that would culminate 
in the commission of an offence under the Anti-Corruption Code, 
shall be treated as if an offence had been committed, whether or 
not such attempt or agreement in fact resulted in such offence. 
 2.5.2 A Participant who authorises, causes, knowingly assists, 
encourages, aids, abets, covers up or is otherwise complicit in 
any	acts	or	omissions	of	the	type	described	in	Articles	2.1	–	2.4	
committed by his/her coach, trainer, manager, agent, family 
member,	guest	or	other	affiliate	or	associate	shall	be	treated	as	
having committed such acts or omissions him/herself and shall be 
liable accordingly under the Anti-Corruption Code. 
	 2.5.3	 Where	a	Participant	seeks	to	rely	on	the	existence	of	‘compelling 	
justification’	to	justify	or	excuse	conduct	under	the	Anti-Corruption 	
Code which might otherwise amount to an offence (see Article 
2.4.6),	the	burden	shall	be	on	that	Participant	to	adduce	sufficient 	
credible evidence to prove, on the balance of probabilities, that 
genuine and powerful reasons exist (or existed) to objectively justify 
his/her conduct taking into account all the relevant circumstances.
 2.6 The following are not relevant to the determination of an offence under 
the Anti-Corruption Code (although they may be relevant to the issue 
of the sanction to be imposed under Article 6 in the event that it is 
determined that an offence has been committed):
 2.6.1 Whether or not the Participant was participating or involved in 
any	way	in	the	specific	International	Match(es)	in	question.	
 2.6.2 The nature or outcome of any Bet(s) on the International 
Match(es) in question.
 2.6.3 The outcome of the International Match(es) in question. 
 2.6.4 Whether or not the Participant’s efforts or performance (if any) 
in the International Match(es) in question were (or could be 
expected to be) affected by the acts or omissions in question.
 2.6.5 Whether or not any of the results in the International Match(es) 
in question were (or could be expected to be) affected by the act 
or omissions in question.
 2.7 It shall be a valid defence to a charge of:
 2.7.1 any offence under the Anti-Corruption Code to prove, on the 
balance of probabilities, that the alleged offence was committed 
(and that, where applicable, it was not reported to the ACU 
thereafter) due to the Participant’s honest and reasonable belief 
that there was a serious threat to his/her life or safety or to the 
life or safety of any other person; and
 2.7.2 an offence under Article 2.4.8 of the Anti-Corruption Code if the 
Participant	adduces	sufficient	credible	evidence	to	prove,	on	the 	
balance of probabilities, that genuine and powerful reasons exist  
(or existed) to objectively justify his/her conduct taking into account 
all the relevant circumstances (and for which purpose the right to 
invoke the privilege against self-incrimination is deemed to have 
been	waived	by	each	Participant	and	shall	not	be	a	sufficient	reason).	 	 2.4.5 Failing to disclose to the ACU (without unnecessary delay) full 
details of any incident, fact, or matter that comes to the attention 
of a Participant that may evidence Corrupt Conduct under the 
Anti-Corruption Code by another Participant, including (without 
limitation) approaches or invitations that have been received 
by another Participant to engage in Corrupt Conduct under the 
Anti-Corruption Code. 
NOTE: All Participants have a continuing obligation to report any 
new incident, fact, or matter that may evidence Corrupt Conduct to 
the ACU, even if the Participant’s prior knowledge has already been 
reported.	It	is	acknowledged	that	the	fight	against	corruption	requires 	
prompt reporting of all such approaches and any unnecessary delay 
in doing so may undermine the effectiveness with which the ACU 
and other relevant anti-corruption bodies can protect the integrity 
of the sport. It is acknowledged that the assessment of whether 
there had been ‘unnecessary delay’ in each case will depend on its 
own circumstances, but it is always unacceptable (and will therefore 
constitute ‘unnecessary delay’) for a Participant to wait until after the 
match in respect of which he/she was invited to engage in Corrupt 
Conduct before reporting that approach to the ACU. 
	 2.4.6	 Failing	or	refusing,	without	compelling	justification	to	cooperate	
with any investigation carried out by the ACU in relation to 
possible Corrupt Conduct under the Anti-Corruption Code (by 
any Participant), including (without limitation) failing to provide 
accurately and completely any information and/or documentation 
requested by the ACU (whether as part of a formal Demand 
pursuant to Article 4.3 or otherwise) as part of such investigation.
 2.4.7 Obstructing or delaying any investigation that may be carried 
out by the ACU in relation to possible Corrupt Conduct under 
the Anti-Corruption Code (by any Participant), including 
(without limitation) concealing, tampering with or destroying 
any documentation or other information that may be relevant 
to that investigation and/or that may be evidence of or may 
lead to the discovery of evidence of Corrupt Conduct under the 
Anti-Corruption Code.
 2.4.8 Failing or refusing, to cooperate with any proceedings brought 
against any Participant for Corrupt Conduct under the Anti-
Corruption Code, including (without limitation) failing to provide 
a witness statement(s) in respect of information in the possession 
of the Participant and/or failing to attend, for the purposes 
of providing truthful oral evidence, any disciplinary hearing 
convened before an Anti-Corruption Tribunal and/or CAS under 
the Anti-Corruption Code, where requested by the ACU.
 2.4.9 Directly or indirectly soliciting, inducing, enticing, persuading, 
encouraging or intentionally facilitating any Participant to breach 
any of the foregoing provisions of this Article 2.4. ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.12 17.13 4.3 As part of any investigation, the ACU General Manager may at any time 
(including after a Notice of Charge has been provided to a relevant 
Participant) make a written demand to any Participant (a “Demand”) to 
provide the ACU, in writing and/or by answering questions in person at an 
interview and/or by allowing the ACU to take possession of and/or copy or 
download information from his/her Mobile Device(s) (as the ACU General 
Manager elects), with any information that the ACU General Manager 
reasonably believes may be relevant to the investigation. Such information 
may include (without limitation) (a) copies or access to all relevant records 
(such as current or historic telephone records, bank statements, Internet 
services records and/or other records stored on computer hard drives or 
other information storage equipment or any consent forms related thereto); 
(b) any data and/or messages and/or photographs and/or videos and/or 
audio	files	and/or	documents	or	any	other	relevant	material	contained	on 	
his/her Mobile Device(s) (including, but not limited to, information stored 
through SMS, WhatsApp or any other messaging system); and/or (c) all of 
the facts and circumstances of which the Participant is aware with respect 
to the matter being investigated. Provided that any such Demand has 
been issued in accordance with this Article, and subject to any applicable 
principles of national law, the Participant shall cooperate fully with such 
Demand, including by furnishing such information within such reasonable 
period of time as may be determined by the ACU General Manager. Where 
such a Demand relates to the request to take possession of and/or copy or 
download information contained on a Participant’s Mobile Device, then such 
information shall be provided immediately upon the Participant’s receipt 
of the Demand. In all other cases, save where exceptional circumstances 
exist, a minimum period of fourteen days from receipt of the Demand will 
be provided. Where appropriate, the Participant may seek an extension of 
such deadline by providing the ACU General Manager with cogent reasons 
to support an extension, provided that the decision to grant or deny such 
extension shall be in the discretion of the ACU General Manager, acting 
reasonably at all times.
 4.4 Any information furnished to the ACU General Manager (whether 
pursuant	to	a	specific	Demand	or	otherwise	as	part	of	an	investigation)	
will not be used for any purpose other than in accordance with the 
Anti-Corruption Code and will be kept strictly	confidential except when: 
 4.4.1 it becomes necessary to disclose such information in support 
of a charge of breach of the Anti-Corruption Code or the anti-
corruption rules of any National Cricket Federation; 
 4.4.2 such information is required to be disclosed by any applicable law; 
 4.4.3 such information is already published or a matter of public 
record, readily acquired by an interested member of the public, 
or disclosed according to the rules and regulations governing the 
relevant International Match; and/or
 4.4.4 it becomes necessary (because the information gathered may 
also amount to or evidence infringements of other applicable 
laws or regulations) to disclose such information to other 
competent authorities (including any applicable police, taxation, 
fraud, criminal intelligence or other authorities), whether 
pursuant to formal information-sharing agreements or otherwise. ARTICLE 3 – STANDARD OF PROOF AND EVIDENCE 
 3.1 Unless otherwise stated elsewhere in this Anti-Corruption Code, the burden 
of proof shall be on the ICC in all cases brought under the Anti-Corruption 
Code and the standard of proof shall be whether the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal	is	comfortably	satisfied	that	the	alleged	offence	has	been 	
committed, bearing in mind the seriousness of the allegation that is being 
made. This standard of proof in all cases is greater than a mere balance of 
probability but less than proof beyond a reasonable doubt. 
 3.2 The following rules of proof shall be applicable at the hearing: 
 3.2.1  The Anti-Corruption Tribunal shall not be bound by rules 
governing the admissibility of evidence in judicial or other 
proceedings. Instead, facts may be established by any reliable 
means, including admissions and circumstantial evidence. 
 3.2.2 The Anti-Corruption Tribunal shall have discretion to accept 
any facts established by a decision of a court or professional 
disciplinary tribunal of competent jurisdiction that is not the 
subject of a pending appeal as irrebuttable evidence of those 
facts as against the Participant to whom the decision pertained, 
unless the Participant establishes that the decision violated 
principles of natural justice. 
 3.2.3  The Anti-Corruption Tribunal may draw an inference adverse 
to a Participant who is asserted to have committed an offence 
under the Anti-Corruption Code based on his/her refusal, without 
compelling	justification,	after	a	request	made	in	a	reasonable	
time in advance of the hearing, to appear at the hearing (either 
in person or by video or telephone link, as directed by the Anti-
Corruption Tribunal) and to answer any relevant questions. 
ARTICLE 4 – INVESTIGATIONS AND NOTICE OF CHARGE 
 4.1 Any allegation or suspicion of a breach of the Anti-Corruption Code, 
whatever the source, shall be referred to the ACU General Manager  
for investigation. 
 4.2 The ACU may at any time conduct an investigation into the activities of 
any Participant that it believes may have committed an offence under 
the Anti-Corruption Code. Such investigations may be conducted in 
conjunction with, and/or information obtained in such investigations 
may be shared with, National Cricket Federations and/or other relevant 
authorities (including criminal, administrative, professional and/or 
judicial authorities). All Participants and National Cricket Federations 
must cooperate fully with such investigations, failing which any such 
Participant shall be liable to be charged with a breach of the Anti-
Corruption Code pursuant to Articles 2.4.6, 2.4.7, 2.4.8 and/or 2.4.9 (and 
it shall not be a valid basis for failing or refusing to cooperate or a valid 
defence to any such subsequent charge for a Participant to invoke any 
privilege against self-incrimination, which privilege is deemed to have 
been waived by the Participant). The ACU shall have discretion, where it 
deems appropriate, to stay its own investigation pending the outcome 
of investigations being conducted by other National Cricket Federations 
and/or other relevant authorities.ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.14 17.15ICC’s Independent Oversight Group (in the case of Directors only), 
in both cases having consulted in accordance with relevant ICC 
policy, considers that there are other exceptional circumstances 
relevant to a Participant (for example, where any relevant police 
authority has arrested and/or charged a Participant with an offence 
under any relevant criminal law in respect of facts or circumstances 
that may also constitute an offence under the Anti-Corruption 
Code), he/she shall have the discretion, in circumstances where 
he/she considers that the integrity of the sport could otherwise 
be seriously undermined, to Provisionally Suspend the Participant 
pending the Anti-Corruption Tribunal’s determination of whether 
he/she has committed an offence. Any decision to Provisionally 
Suspend the Participant will be communicated to the Participant in 
writing, with a copy sent at the same time to the National Cricket 
Federation	to	which	the	Participant	is	affiliated. 	
 4.7.2 In all cases, the Participant shall be given an opportunity to 
contest such Provisional Suspension in a Provisional Hearing 
taking place before the Chairman of the ICC Code of Conduct 
Commission (sitting alone) on a timely basis after its imposition. 
At any such Provisional Hearing, it shall be the burden of the 
ICC to establish that in such circumstances, the integrity of the 
sport could be seriously undermined if he/she does not remain 
Provisionally Suspended pending determination of the charge(s) 
or such other date (as may be applicable). The Provisional 
Hearing shall take place on the basis of written submissions 
alone, save where the Chairman of the ICC Code of Conduct 
Commission, in his absolute discretion, determines that a hearing 
should be convened. Any Provisional Hearing shall ensure that 
the Participant is afforded a fair and reasonable opportunity to 
present evidence, address the Chairman, and present his/her 
case. Notice of any decision made at a Provisional Hearing will be 
sent by the ICC to the National Cricket Federation to which the 
Participant	is	affiliated	as	soon	as	such	decision	has	been	made.	
 4.7.3 Where a full hearing under Article 5 has not been convened 
within three (3) months of the imposition of a Provisional 
Suspension, the Participant shall be entitled to apply (again, 
where applicable) to the Chairman of the ICC Code of Conduct 
Commission (sitting alone) to lift the imposition of the Provisional 
Suspension. It shall be the burden of the ICC to establish that 
there remains a risk that the integrity of the sport could be 
seriously undermined if the Provisional Suspension was lifted. 
The application shall be determined on the basis of written 
submissions alone, save where the Chairman of the ICC Code 
of Conduct Commission, in his absolute discretion, determines 
that a hearing should be convened. Any consideration of such 
an application by the Chairman of the ICC Code of Conduct 
Commission shall ensure that the Participant is afforded a fair 
and reasonable opportunity to present evidence, address the 
Chairman, and present his/her case. Notice of any decision made 
by the Chairman of the ICC Code of Conduct Commission will be 
sent by the ICC to the National Cricket Federation to which the 
Participant	is	affiliated	as	soon	as	such	decision	has	been	made.	 4.5 All Participants must cooperate with the ACU in relation to any 
proceedings brought against any other Participant for Corrupt 
Conduct in breach of the Anti-Corruption Code, including (without 
limitation) through the provision of a witness statement(s) in respect 
of information in the possession of the Participant and/or attending, 
for the purposes of providing truthful oral evidence, any disciplinary 
hearing convened before an Anti-Corruption Tribunal and/or CAS 
under the Anti-Corruption Code, where requested by the ACU, failing 
which the non-cooperating Participant shall be liable to be charged 
with a breach of the Anti-Corruption Code pursuant to Article 2.4.8. 
In light of the waiver contained in Article 2.7.2, it shall not be a valid 
basis for failing or refusing to cooperate or a valid defence to any such 
subsequent charge for a Participant to invoke any privilege against 
self-incrimination.
 4.6 If, at any time, the ICC’s General Counsel (in the case of all Participants 
other than Directors), or the Chairman of the ICC’s Independent 
Oversight Group (in the case of Directors only), in both cases having 
consulted in accordance with relevant ICC policy, determines that there 
is a case to answer under Article 2, then the Participant shall be sent 
written	notice	of	the	following,	copied	to	the	anti-corruption	official	or	
senior	legal	officer	of	the	National	Cricket	Federation	to	which	he/she	is	
affiliated	(or,	where	there	are	no	individuals	holding	such	positions,	the	
CEO of the National Cricket Federation) (the “Notice of Charge”):
 4.6.1 that the Participant has a case to answer under Article 2; 
	 4.6.2	 the	specific	offence(s)	that	the	Participant	is	alleged	to	have	
committed;
 4.6.3 details of the alleged acts and/or omissions relied upon in 
support of the charge; 
 4.6.4 the range of sanctions applicable under the Anti-Corruption Code 
if the charge is admitted or upheld; 
 4.6.5 (where applicable) the matters relating to Provisional Suspension 
specified	at	Article	4.7;	and	
 4.6.6 that if the Participant wishes to exercise his/her right to a hearing 
before the Anti-Corruption Tribunal (whether to contest liability 
or sanction or both), he/she must submit a written request for a 
hearing that explains how the Participant responds to the charge(s) 
and (in summary form) the basis for such response. To be effective, 
the request must be received by the ICC’s General Counsel as 
soon as possible, but in any event within fourteen (14) days of the 
Participant’s receipt of the Notice of Charge. A copy of any such 
notice will be sent by the ICC to the National Cricket Federation to 
which	the	Participant	is	affiliated	without	unnecessary	delay.
 4.7 Provisional Suspension: 
 4.7.1 Where either: (a) the ICC’s General Counsel (in the case of all 
Participants other than Directors) or the Chairman of the ICC’s 
Independent Oversight Group (in the case of Directors only), in 
both cases having consulted in accordance with relevant ICC 
policy, decides to charge a Participant with an offence under the 
Anti-Corruption Code; or (b) the ICC’s General Counsel (in the 
case of all Participants other than Directors) or Chairman of the ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.16 17.17ARTICLE 5 – THE DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
 5.1  Hearings under the Anti-Corruption Code 
 5.1.1 Where the ICC alleges that a Participant has committed an 
offence under the Anti-Corruption Code, and the Participant 
submits	the	response	required	under	Article	4.6.6	by	the	specified	
deadline, disputing the charge and/or the sanctions to be 
imposed for such offence under the Anti-Corruption Code, the 
matter shall be referred to the Chairman of the ICC Code of 
Conduct Commission. 
 5.1.2 The Chairman of the ICC Code of Conduct Commission 
shall appoint three members from the ICC Code of Conduct 
Commission (which may include the Chairman) to form an 
Anti-Corruption Tribunal to hear the case. One member of the 
Anti-Corruption Tribunal, who shall be a lawyer, shall sit as 
the Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Tribunal. The appointed 
members shall be independent of the parties, shall have had no 
prior involvement with the case, and shall not (unless otherwise 
agreed between the parties) be from the same country as the 
Participant who is the subject of the proceedings. 
 5.1.3 The Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Tribunal shall convene a 
preliminary hearing with the ICC and its legal representatives, 
together with the Participant and his/her legal representatives 
(if any). At the reasonable discretion of the Chairman, a 
representative of the National Cricket Federation to which 
the	Participant	is	affiliated	may	also	attend	such	hearing	(but	
strictly as an observer only and with no right to be heard). The 
preliminary hearing should take place as soon as possible by 
telephone conference call unless the Chairman determines 
otherwise. The non-participation of the Participant or his/her 
representative at the preliminary hearing, after proper notice of 
the preliminary hearing has been provided, shall not prevent the 
Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Tribunal from proceeding with 
the preliminary hearing, whether or not any written submissions 
are made on behalf of the Participant. Notice of any orders or 
directions made at the preliminary hearing will be sent by the 
ICC to the National Cricket Federation to which the Participant is 
affiliated	without	unnecessary	delay	following	the	conclusion	of	
the preliminary hearing.
 5.1.4 The purpose of the preliminary hearing shall be to allow the 
Chairman to address any issues that need to be resolved prior 
to the hearing date. In particular (but without limitation), the 
Chairman shall:
 5.1.4.1 determine the date(s) upon which the full hearing shall 
be held. Save where the Chairman in his discretion 
orders otherwise, the full hearing should ordinarily take 
place no more than forty (40) days after the date of the 
preliminary hearing;  4.7.4 While Provisionally Suspended, a Participant may not play, coach 
or otherwise participate or be involved in any capacity in any 
Match or any other kind of function, event or activity (other 
than authorised anti-corruption education or rehabilitation 
programs) that is authorised, organised, sanctioned, recognised 
or supported in any way by the ICC, a National Cricket 
Federation, or any member under the jurisdiction of a National 
Cricket Federation, or receive accreditation to provide media or 
other	services	at	any	official	venue	or	Match.	National	Cricket	
Federations shall take all reasonable steps within their powers to 
give effect to this Article 4.7.4 to the extent that they have the 
jurisdiction, power or ability to do so.
 4.7.5 A Participant who is not Provisionally Suspended may voluntarily 
Provisionally Suspend him/herself by written notice to the ICC’s 
General Counsel. In that case, provided that the Participant 
respects that voluntary Provisional Suspension until the charge(s) 
against him/her is/are determined, he/she shall be given credit 
for such voluntary Provisional Suspension in accordance with 
Article 6.4. A copy of any such notice will be sent by the ICC 
to the National Cricket Federation to which the Participant is 
affiliated	without	unnecessary	delay.
 4.8 Responding to a Notice of Charge:
	 4.8.1	 If	the	Participant	fails	to	file	a	written	request	for	a	hearing	before	
the Anti-Corruption Tribunal in accordance with Article 4.6.6 (or 
by any extended deadline that the ICC’s General Counsel deems 
appropriate), then he/she shall be deemed to have:
 4.8.1.1 waived his/her entitlement to a hearing; 
 4.8.1.2 admitted that he/she has committed the offence(s) 
under	the	Anti-Corruption	Code	specified	in	the	Notice	
of Charge; and
	 4.8.1.3	 acceded	to	the	range	of	applicable	sanctions	specified	in	
the Notice of Charge.
  In such circumstances, a hearing before the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal shall not be required. Instead, the ICC’s Chief Executive 
Officer	(in	consultation	with	ICC’s	General	Counsel)	shall	promptly	
issue	a	public	decision	confirming	the	offence(s)	under	the	
Anti-Corruption	Code	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge	and	the	
imposition	of	an	applicable	sanction	within	the	range	specified	
in the Notice of Charge. Before issuing that public decision, 
the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer	will	provide	written	notice	of	
that decision to the National Cricket Federation to which the 
Participant	is	affiliated.	
 4.8.2 Where the Participant does request a hearing in accordance with 
Article 4.6.6, the matter shall proceed to a hearing in accordance 
with Article 5. ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.18 17.19 5.1.6 If, because of a legitimate objection or for any other reason, a 
member of the Anti-Corruption Tribunal is, or becomes, unwilling 
or unable to hear the case, then the Chairman of the ICC Code 
of Conduct Commission may, at his/her absolute discretion: (a) 
appoint a replacement member of the Anti-Corruption Tribunal 
from the ICC’s Code of Conduct Commission; or (b) authorise the 
remaining members to hear the case on their own. 
 5.1.7 Subject to the discretion of the Chairman of the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal to order otherwise for good cause shown by either party 
(for example, and notwithstanding clause 5.1.8, where, having 
due regard to the seriousness of the alleged offence, the costs of 
attending any hearing are disproportionate to the Participant’s 
means and therefore prohibit him/her from having a fair 
opportunity to present his/her case), or unless otherwise agreed 
between the parties, hearings before the Anti-Corruption Tribunal 
shall (a) take place at the ICC’s headquarters in Dubai, United Arab 
Emirates;	and	(b)	be	conducted	on	a	confidential	basis. 	
 5.1.8 Each of the ICC and the Participant has the right to be present 
and to be heard at the hearing and (at his/her or its own expense) 
to be represented at the hearing by legal counsel of his/her or its 
own choosing. At the reasonable discretion of the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal, a representative of the National Cricket Federation to 
which	the	Participant	is	affiliated	may	also	attend	any	such	hearing 	
(but strictly as an observer only and with no right to be heard). 
Where	there	is	compelling	justification	for	the	non-attendance 	
by any party or representative at the hearing, then such party or 
representative shall be given the opportunity to participate in the 
hearing by telephone or video conference (if available). 
 5.1.9 Without prejudice to Article 3.2.2, the Participant may choose 
not to appear in person at the hearing, but instead may provide 
a written submission for consideration by the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal, in which case the Anti-Corruption Tribunal shall consider 
the submission in its deliberations. However, the non-attendance 
of the Participant or his/her representative at the hearing, 
without	compelling	justification,	after	proper	notice	of	the	
hearing has been provided, shall not prevent the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal from proceeding with the hearing in his/her absence, 
whether or not any written submissions are made on his/her 
behalf. A copy of any such written submission will be sent by the 
ICC to the National Cricket Federation to which the Participant is 
affiliated	without	unnecessary	delay	after	it	is	received.
 5.1.10 The procedure to be followed at the hearing (including whether 
to convene a hearing or, alternatively, to determine the matter 
(or any part thereof) by way of written submissions alone) shall 
be at the discretion of the Chairman of the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal, provided that the hearing is conducted in a manner 
that affords the Participant a fair and reasonable opportunity 
to present evidence (including the right to call and to question 
witnesses by telephone or video-conference where necessary), 
address the Anti-Corruption Tribunal, and present his/her case.  5.1.4.2 establish dates reasonably in advance of the date of the 
full hearing by which:
 a) the ICC shall submit an opening brief with argument 
on all issues that the ICC wishes to raise at the 
hearing and a written statement from each witness 
that the ICC intends to call at the hearing, setting out 
his/her direct evidence, and enclosing copies of the 
documents that the ICC intends to rely on at  
the hearing;
 b) the Participant shall submit an answering brief, 
addressing the ICC’s arguments and setting out 
argument on the issues that he/she wishes to raise 
at the hearing, as well as a written statement from 
each witness that he/she intends to call at the 
hearing, setting out that witness’s direct evidence, 
and enclosing copies of the documents that he/she 
intends to rely on at the hearing; and
 c) the ICC may (at its discretion) submit a reply brief, 
responding to the answer brief of the Participant and 
providing a witness statement from each rebuttal 
witness that the ICC intends to call at the hearing, 
setting out his/her direct evidence, and enclosing 
copies of any further documents that the ICC intends 
to rely on at the hearing; and
 5.1.4.3 order such consolidation with other case(s) as the 
Chairman shall deem appropriate. For example, where 
two or more Participants are alleged to have committed 
offences under the Anti-Corruption Code, they may both 
be dealt with at the same hearing where the proceedings 
arise out of the same incident or set of facts, or where 
there is a clear link between separate incidents; and
 5.1.4.4 make such order as the Chairman shall deem appropriate 
(subject to any principles of applicable national law) in 
relation to the production of relevant documents and/or 
other materials between the parties.
 5.1.5 The Participant shall be required to raise at the preliminary 
hearing any legitimate objection that he/she may have to any of 
the members of the Anti-Corruption Tribunal convened to hear 
his/her	case.	Any	unjustified	delay	in	raising	any	such	objection	
shall constitute a waiver of the objection. If any objection is 
made, the Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Tribunal shall rule on 
its legitimacy (or, if the objection relates to the Chairman of the 
Tribunal, the Chairman of the ICC Code of Conduct Commission 
shall rule on its legitimacy). ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.20 17.21 5.2.1.3 with reasons, the date that such period of Ineligibility 
shall commence pursuant to Article 6.4; and 
 5.2.1.4 the rights of appeal described in Article 7.
 5.2.2 The ICC will provide the National Cricket Federation to which the 
Participant	is	affiliated	with	a	full	written	copy	of	the	findings	and	
decisions of the Anti-Corruption Tribunal (including any sanctions 
imposed by the Anti-Corruption Tribunal) at the same time as 
such decision is provided to the Participant and prior to publicly 
announcing such decision.
 5.2.3 The Anti-Corruption Tribunal shall have discretion to announce 
the substance of its decision to the parties prior to the issue of 
the written reasoned decision referred to in Article 5.2.1 in cases 
where a Provisional Suspension has been imposed or where 
it otherwise deems appropriate. For the avoidance of doubt, 
however: (a) the Anti-Corruption Tribunal shall still be required to 
issue a written, reasoned decision in accordance with Article 5.2.1; 
and (b) the time to appeal pursuant to Article 7 shall not run until 
receipt of that written, reasoned decision. Notice of such decision 
will be provided by the ICC to the National Cricket Federation 
to	which	the	Participant	is	affiliated	without	unnecessary	delay	
following its announcement.
 5.2.4 The Anti-Corruption Tribunal has the power to make a costs 
order against any party to the hearing in respect of the costs 
of convening the Anti-Corruption Tribunal and of staging the 
hearing and/or in respect of the costs (legal, expert, travel, 
accommodation, translation or otherwise) incurred by the parties 
in	relation	to	the	proceedings	where	it	deems	fit	(for	example,	
but without limitation, where it considers that such party has 
acted spuriously, frivolously or otherwise in bad faith). If it does 
not exercise that power, the ICC shall pay the costs of convening 
the Anti-Corruption Tribunal and of staging the hearing, 
and each party shall bear its own costs (legal, expert, travel, 
accommodation, translation or otherwise).
 5.2.5 Subject only to the rights of appeal under Article 7, the Anti-
Corruption	Tribunal’s	decision	shall	be	the	full,	final	and	complete	
disposition of the matter and will be binding on all parties. 
ARTICLE 6 – SANCTIONS 
  6.1 Where a breach of the Anti-Corruption Code is admitted by the 
Participant or upheld by the Anti-Corruption Tribunal, the Anti-
Corruption Tribunal will be required to impose an appropriate sanction 
upon the Participant from the range of permissible sanctions described 
in Article 6.2. In order to determine the appropriate sanction that is 
to	be	imposed	in	each	case,	the	Anti-Corruption	Tribunal	must	first	
determine the relative seriousness of the offence, including identifying 
all relevant factors that it deems to:
 6.1.1 aggravate the nature of the offence, including (without limitation): 
 6.1.1.1 a lack of remorse on the part of the Participant; 5.1.11 Save where the Chairman orders otherwise for good cause shown 
by either party, the hearing shall be in English, evidence shall 
be given in English (with the cost of any necessary translation 
borne	by	the	party	offering	the	evidence),	and	certified	English 	
translations shall be submitted of any non-English documents 
put before the Anti-Corruption Tribunal (with the cost of the 
translation borne by the party offering the documents). If required 
by the Chairman, the ICC shall make arrangements to have the 
hearing recorded or transcribed (save for the private deliberations 
of the Anti-Corruption Tribunal). The costs of such transcription 
shall be paid by the ICC, subject to any costs-shifting order that the 
Anti-Corruption Tribunal may make further to Article 5.2.4.
 5.1.12 Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of this Anti-
Corruption Code, at any time during the proceedings it shall be 
open to a Participant charged with breach(es) of the Anti-
Corruption Code to admit the breach(es) charged, whether or not 
in exchange for an agreement with the ICC on the appropriate 
sanction to be imposed upon him/her in order to avoid the need 
for a hearing before the Anti-Corruption Tribunal. Any such 
discussions between the ICC and the Participant shall take place 
on a “without prejudice” basis and in such a manner that they 
shall not delay or in any other way interfere with the proceedings. 
Any resulting agreement shall be evidenced in writing, signed 
by both the ICC’s General Counsel and the Participant, and shall 
set out the sanction imposed on the Participant for his/her 
breach of the Anti-Corruption Code (the “Agreed Sanction”). In 
determining the Agreed Sanction the ICC will have due regard 
to the range of sanctions set out in Article 6.2 for the offence(s) 
in question, but it shall not be bound to impose a sanction 
within that range where it reasonably considers (at its absolute 
discretion) that there is good reason to depart therefrom. Upon 
receipt of notice of the Agreed Sanction, the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal shall discontinue the proceedings on the terms thereof 
without the need for any further hearing. Instead the ICC’s Chief 
Executive	Officer	(in	consultation	with	the	ICC’s	General	Counsel)	
shall	promptly	issue	a	public	decision	confirming	the	Participant’s	
admission of the offence(s) charged and the imposition of the 
Agreed Sanction. Before issuing that public decision, the ICC’s 
Chief	Executive	Officer	will	provide	notice	of	it	to	the	National	
Cricket	Federation	to	which	the	Participant	is	affiliated.
 5.2 Decisions of the Anti-Corruption Tribunal
 5.2.1 The Anti-Corruption Tribunal shall announce its decision in 
writing, with reasons, as soon as possible after, and, in any event, 
within thirty (30) days of, the conclusion of the hearing. That 
written decision will set out and explain:
	 5.2.1.1	 with	reasons,	the	Anti-Corruption	Tribunal’s	findings	as	
to whether any offence(s) under the Anti-Corruption 
Code has/have been committed;
	 5.2.1.2	 with	reasons,	the	Anti-Corruption	Tribunal’s	findings	as	
to what sanctions, if any, are to be imposed (including 
any	fine	and/or	period	of	Ineligibility);ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.22 17.23 6.2 Having considered all of the factors described in Articles 6.1.1 and 6.1.2, 
the Anti-Corruption Tribunal shall then determine, in accordance with 
the following table, what the appropriate sanction(s) should be: 
ANTI-CORRUPTION 
CODE OFFENCERANGE OF 
PERMISSIBLE PERIOD 
OF INELIGIBILITY ADDITIONAL 
DISCRETION TO 
IMPOSE A FINE
Article 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 2.1.3  
or 2.1.4 (Corruption)A	minimum	of	five	(5)	
years and a maximum  
of a lifetime.In all cases, in addition to 
any period of Ineligibility, 
the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal shall have the 
discretion to impose a 
fine	on	the	Participant 	 
of such amount as it 
deems appropriate. Article 2.2.1  
or 2.2.2 (Betting)A minimum of one (1) 
year and a maximum  
of	five	(5)	years.
Article 2.3.1 or 2.3.3 
(as it relates to an 
offence under Article 
2.3.1) (Misuse of Inside 
Information) A minimum of one (1) 
year and a maximum  
of	five	(5)	years.
Article 2.3.2 or 2.3.3  
(as it relates to an offence 
under Article 2.3.2) (Misuse 
of Inside Information)A minimum of six (6) 
months and a maximum 
of	five	(5)	years.	
Any of Articles 2.4.1 to 
2.4.6, inclusive (General)A minimum of six (6) 
months and a maximum 
of	five	(5)	years.
Any of Articles 2.4.7 to 
2.4.9 inclusive (General)Any period from zero  
up to a maximum of  
five	(5)	years.
 6.3 For the avoidance of doubt:
 6.3.1 the Anti-Corruption Tribunal has no jurisdiction to adjust, reverse 
or amend the results of any Match; 
 6.3.2 where a Participant is found guilty of committing two offences 
under the Anti-Corruption Code in relation to the same incident or 
set of facts, then (save where ordered otherwise by the Anti-
Corruption Tribunal for good cause shown) any multiple periods of 
Ineligibility imposed should run concurrently (and not cumulatively);
	 6.3.3	 where	a	fine	and/or	costs	award	is	imposed	against	a	Participant,	
such	fine	and/or	costs	award	must	be	paid:	(a)	by	the	Participant	
(and not, unless the ICC agrees, by any other third party, 
including a National Cricket Federation); (b) directly to the ICC no 
later (subject to Article 6.7) than one calendar month following 
receipt	of	the	decision	imposing	the	fine;	and
 6.3.4 the ICC will provide the National Cricket Federation of the 
Participant with written notice of (and a full written copy of) the 
findings	and	decisions	of	the	Anti-Corruption	Tribunal	(including	
any sanctions imposed by the Anti-Corruption Tribunal) at the 
same time as such decision is provided to the Participant and 
prior to publicly announcing such decision. 
 6.4 Any period of Ineligibility imposed on a Participant shall commence on the 
date that the decision imposing the period of Ineligibility is issued; provided 
that any period of Provisional Suspension served by the Participant shall be 
credited against the total period of Ineligibility to be served. 6.1.1.2 the Participant’s bad previous disciplinary record (including 
where the Participant has previously been found guilty 
of another offence under the Anti-Corruption Code and/
or any predecessor regulations of the ICC and/or any 
anti-corruption rules of any National Cricket Federation); 
	 6.1.1.3	 where	the	amount	of	any	profits,	winnings	or	other	Reward 	
directly or indirectly received by the Participant as a result 
of the offence(s) is substantial and/or where the sums of 
money otherwise involved in the offence(s) were substantial; 
 6.1.1.4 where the offence substantially damaged (or had the 
potential to damage substantially) the commercial value 
and/or the public interest in the relevant International 
Match(es);
 6.1.1.5 where the offence affected (or had the potential to 
affect) the result of the relevant International Match(es);
 6.1.1.6 where the welfare of a Participant or any other person 
has been endangered as a result of the offence; 
 6.1.1.7 where the offence involved more than one Participant; 
and/or 
 6.1.1.8 any other aggravating factor(s) that the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal considers relevant and appropriate. 
 6.1.2 mitigate the nature of the offence, including (without limitation): 
 6.1.2.1 any admission of guilt (the mitigating value of which 
may depend upon its timing); 
 6.1.2.2 the Participant’s good previous disciplinary record;
 6.1.2.3 the youth and/or lack of experience of the Participant;
  6.1.2.4 where the Participant renounced the attempt or 
agreement prior to it being discovered by a third party 
not involved in the attempt or agreement.
 6.1.2.5 where the Participant has cooperated with the ACU and 
any investigation or Demand carried out by it;
 6.1.2.6 where the offence did not substantially damage (or have 
the potential to substantially damage) the commercial 
value, integrity of results and/or the public interest in 
the relevant International Match(es);
 6.1.2.7 where the offence did not affect (or have the potential to 
affect) the result of the relevant International Match(es); 
 6.1.2.8 where the Participant provides Substantial Assistance to 
the ICC, any other National Cricket Federation, a criminal 
authority, or a professional disciplinary body; 
 6.1.2.9 where the Participant has already suffered penalties 
under other laws and/or regulations for the same 
offence; and/or
 6.1.2.10 any other mitigating factor(s) that the Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal considers relevant and appropriate. ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.24 17.25ARTICLE 7 – APPEALS
 7.1 The following decisions made under the Anti-Corruption Code may 
be challenged by the ICC or the Participant who is the subject of the 
decision (as applicable) solely and exclusively by appeal to CAS as set 
out in this Article 7: 
 7.1.1 a decision by the Chairman of the ICC Code of Conduct 
Commission not to lift a Provisional Suspension;
 7.1.2 a decision that a charge of breach of the Anti-Corruption Code 
should be dismissed for procedural or jurisdictional reasons;
 7.1.3 a decision that an offence under the Anti-Corruption Code has  
(or has not) been committed; and/or
 7.1.4  a decision to impose (or not to impose) sanctions, including the 
appropriateness of any sanction imposed for an offence under 
the Anti-Corruption Code.
 7.2 For the avoidance of any doubt, no party shall have any right of appeal 
against (a) an Agreed Sanction imposed pursuant to Article 5.1.12; or (b) 
decisions by the Chairman of the ACU made pursuant to Article 6.8.
 7.3 Decisions being appealed shall remain in effect and binding pending 
resolution of the appeal.
 7.4	 The	deadline	for	filing	an	appeal	to	CAS	shall	be	twenty-one	(21)	days	
from the date of receipt of the written reasoned decision by the 
appealing	party.	To	be	a	valid	filing	under	this	Article,	a	copy	of	an	
appeal	filed	by	the	Participant	must	also	be	served	on	the	same	day	on	
the ICC (which will thereafter provide a copy to the National Cricket 
Federation	to	which	the	Participant	is	affiliated.	
 7.5 In all appeals to CAS pursuant to this Article 7:
 7.5.1 CAS’s Code of Sports-related Arbitration shall apply, save as 
amended below.
 7.5.2 Where required in order to do justice (for example to cure 
procedural	errors	at	the	first	instance	hearing),	the	appeal	shall	
take the form of a re-hearing de novo of the issues raised by the 
case. In all other cases, the appeal shall not take the form of a de 
novo hearing but instead shall be limited to a consideration of 
whether the decision being appealed was erroneous.
 7.5.3 The governing law shall be English law and the appeal shall be 
conducted in English, unless the parties agree otherwise.
	 7.5.4	 The	decision	of	CAS	on	the	appeal	shall	be	final	and	binding	on	all	
parties, and no right of appeal shall lie from the CAS decision.  6.5 No Participant who has been declared Ineligible may, during the period 
of	Ineligibility,	play,	coach,	officiate	or	otherwise	participate	or	be	
involved in any capacity in any Match or any other kind of function, 
event or activity (other than authorised anti-corruption education 
or rehabilitation programs) that is authorised, organised, sanctioned, 
recognised or supported in any way by the ICC, a National Cricket 
Federation, or any member under the jurisdiction of a National Cricket 
Federation, or receive accreditation to provide media or other services 
at	any	official	venue	or	Match.	National	Cricket	Federations	shall	take	all	
reasonable steps within their powers to give effect to this Article 6.5 to 
the extent that they have the jurisdiction, power or ability to do so. 
 6.6 A Participant who is subject to a period of Ineligibility shall remain 
subject to this Anti-Corruption Code and the anti-corruption rules of all 
National Cricket Federations during that period. If a Participant commits 
Corrupt Conduct during a period of Ineligibility, this shall be treated as 
a separate offence and new proceedings will be brought pursuant to 
Article 4.6 of this Anti-Corruption Code or under the anti-corruption 
rules of the relevant National Cricket Federation, as applicable. 
 6.7 Once any period of Ineligibility has expired, the Participant will 
automatically become re-eligible to participate or be otherwise involved 
in	Matches	provided	that	he/she	has	first:	(a)	completed	an	official 	
anti-corruption education session to the reasonable satisfaction of the 
ACU; (b) agreed to subject him/herself to such additional reasonable 
and proportionate monitoring procedures and requirements as the ACU 
General Manager may reasonably consider necessary given the nature 
and	scope	of	the	offence	committed;	and	(c)	satisfied	in	full	any	fine 	
and/or award of costs made against him/her by any Anti-Corruption 
Tribunal or the CAS. However, the ICC will consider any request from any 
Participant,	on	the	grounds	of	financial	hardship,	to	make	the	payment	of 	
such	fines	and/or	costs	over	a	prolonged	period	of	time.	Should	any	fine 	
and/or costs award (or agreed part-payment or instalment thereof) not 
be paid to the ICC within such deadline or by the time of the next agreed 
payment date, then, unless the ICC agrees otherwise, the Participant may 
not play, coach or otherwise participate or be involved in any capacity in 
any	Match	until	such	payment	has	been	satisfied	in	full.
 6.8 The Chairman of the ACU shall, only after obtaining the prior written 
agreement of any relevant National Cricket Federation(s) and the prior 
approval of the ICC Board, have discretion to permit a Participant who is 
subject to a period of Ineligibility to participate or otherwise be involved in 
Domestic Matches at any time prior to the end of that period of Ineligibility 
where in the opinion of the Chairman of the ACU the early reinstatement 
of such eligibility is warranted by the conduct of the Participant since the 
period of Ineligibility was imposed, taking into account such factors as 
the ACU Chairman in his absolute discretion considers appropriate and 
given the underlying objectives of this Anti-Corruption Code. Such factors 
may include (without limitation) the fact and timing of any expressions 
of apology, remorse and/or contrition by the Participant, the Participant’s 
cooperation with ACU education programmes, and/or the Participant’s 
full disclosure of any and all information known to the Participant that 
may be helpful to the ACU in enforcing the Anti-Corruption Code or 
in otherwise furthering its objectives. For the avoidance of doubt, the 
Chairman of the ACU shall not in any circumstances have discretion to 
reinstate the Participant’s eligibility to participate or otherwise be involved 
in International Matches prior to the end of the period of Ineligibility. ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.26 17.27 9.2 Decisions made and Provisional Suspensions and sanctions imposed 
under the anti-corruption rules of National Cricket Federations shall be 
recognised, enforced, extended and given effect to within their respective 
jurisdictions by the ICC and other National Cricket Federations (including 
in respect of any Matches, tournaments or other events sanctioned by 
such National Cricket Federations), automatically upon receipt of notice of 
the same, without the need for further formality. 
ARTICLE 10 – STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS 
 10.1 No action may be commenced under the Anti-Corruption Code against a 
Participant for an offence under the Anti-Corruption Code more than ten 
years after the date that the offence occurred.
 10.2 Subject strictly to Article 10.1, the ICC has the right (but no obligation) 
to suspend investigations temporarily under this Anti-Corruption Code 
to avoid prejudice to, and/or to give precedence to, investigations 
conducted by other relevant authorities into the same or related matters. 
ARTICLE 11 – AMENDMENT AND INTERPRETATION OF THE ANTI-
CORRUPTION CODE
 11.1 The Anti-Corruption Code may be amended from time to time by the 
ICC’s Board, with such amendments coming into effect on the date 
specified	by	the	ICC.	
 11.2 The headings used for the various Articles of the Anti-Corruption Code 
are for the purpose of guidance only and shall not be deemed to be part 
of the substance of the Anti-Corruption Code or to inform or affect in 
any way the language of the provisions to which they refer.
 11.3 The Anti-Corruption Code shall come into full force and effect on 9 
February 2018 (the “Effective Date”). It shall not operate to disturb any 
decisions and/or sanctions previously made under predecessor versions 
of the Anti-Corruption Code (including the Code of Conduct) or anti-
corruption rules of National Cricket Federations. Nor shall its substantive 
provisions apply retrospectively to matters pending before the Effective 
Date. Instead, any case pending prior to the Effective Date, or brought 
after the Effective Date but based on acts or omissions that occurred 
before the Effective Date, shall be governed (a) as to substance, by 
the predecessor to the Anti-Corruption Code that was in force at the 
time of the alleged offence, subject to any application of the principle 
of lex mitior by the hearing panel determining the case; and (b) as to 
procedure, by this Anti-Corruption Code.
 11.4 If any Article or provision of this Anti-Corruption Code is ruled to be 
invalid, unenforceable or illegal for any reason, it shall be deemed 
deleted, and the Anti-Corruption Code shall remain otherwise in full 
force and effect. 
 11.5 The Anti-Corruption Code is governed by and shall be construed in 
accordance with English law. Strictly without prejudice to the arbitration 
agreement set out in Articles 1.5, 5 and 7, the English courts shall have 
exclusive jurisdiction to issue relief in aid of that arbitration agreement 
and/or to hear and determine challenges to any decision issued by the 
Anti-Corruption Tribunal and/or the CAS. ARTICLE 8 – PUBLIC DISCLOSURE AND CONFIDENTIALITY 
 8.1 Save in exceptional circumstances where the ICC (acting reasonably) 
deems it necessary for the purposes of protecting the integrity of the 
sport and/or any of its Participants (for example in circumstances where 
there	is	significant	damaging	and/or	incorrect	media	speculation),	neither 	
the ICC nor any National Cricket Federation shall publicly identify any 
Participant who is being investigated or is alleged to have committed an 
offence under the Anti-Corruption Code until he/she has been formally 
charged pursuant to Article 4.6, at which point it shall be entitled 
to publicly announce the name of the Participant charged and the 
offences with which he/she has been charged. Thereafter, the ICC will 
not	comment	publicly	on	the	specific	facts	of	a	pending	case	except	in 	
response to public comments made by (or on behalf of) the Participant 
involved in the case or his/her representatives or where otherwise 
necessary	to	preserve	the	public’s	confidence	in	the	ability	of	the	ICC	and/
or	the	National	Cricket	Federations	to	fight	corruption	in	the	sport. 	
 8.2 Once the Anti-Corruption Tribunal has issued its decision in respect of 
any charges brought under the Anti-Corruption Code: 
 8.2.1 If the decision is that an offence has been committed: (a) the 
decision may, at the ICC’s discretion, be publicly reported in full 
as soon as possible; and (b) after the decision is publicly reported, 
the ICC may also publish such other parts of the proceedings 
before	the	Anti-Corruption	Tribunal	as	the	ICC	thinks	fit.	
 8.2.2 If the decision exonerates the Participant, then the decision may 
be publicly reported only with the consent of the Participant. 
The ICC shall use reasonable efforts to obtain such consent, and 
(if consent is obtained) shall publicly disclose the decision in its 
entirety or in such redacted form as the Participant may approve. 
 8.3 The ICC shall use its best endeavours to ensure that persons under its 
control do not publicly identify Participants who are alleged to have 
committed an offence under the Anti-Corruption Code other than in 
accordance with Article 8.1 and 8.2. However, the ICC in its discretion 
may at any time disclose to other organisations such information as the 
ICC may consider necessary or appropriate to facilitate administration 
or enforcement of the Anti-Corruption Code, provided that each 
organisation provides assurance satisfactory to the ICC that the 
organisation	will	maintain	all	such	information	in	confidence.	
ARTICLE 9 – RECOGNITION OF DECISIONS 
 9.1 All National Cricket Federations shall comply with the Anti-Corruption 
Code and take all necessary and reasonable steps within their powers 
to recognise, enforce, extend and give effect to all decisions taken 
and Provisional Suspensions and sanctions imposed under the Anti-
Corruption Code within their own respective jurisdictions, without 
the need for further formality. This shall include (without limitation), 
where it has the jurisdiction to do so, requiring the organisers of any 
Matches, tournaments or other events sanctioned by the National 
Cricket Federation to recognise and give effect to such decisions and 
Provisional Suspensions and sanctions. ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.28 17.29End Date. As	defined	in	Article	1.7.
Full Member. Any National Cricket Federation with full member status of the ICC.
ICC. The International Cricket Council or its designee. 
ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer. The person appointed by the ICC from time to time 
to	act	as	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer	(or	his/her	designee).
ICC’s Clothing and Equipment Rules and Regulations. The ICC’s Clothing and 
Equipment Regulations (a copy of which is set out in the ICC’s Operating Manual), 
as amended from time to time. 
ICC Code of Conduct Commission. An	official	committee	of	the	ICC	established,	
amongst other things, to provide independent enquiries, investigations and 
rulings in relation to matters brought to its attention. Each member of the ICC 
Code of Conduct Commission shall be independent of the ICC, which may provide 
reasonable compensation and reimbursement of expenses to such members. 
ICC Code of Conduct for Umpires. The ICC’s Code of Conduct for Umpires,  
as amended from time to time. 
ICC Code of Ethics. The ICC’s Code of Ethics, as amended from time to time.
ICC’s Independent Oversight Group. An	official	committee	of	the	ICC	established,	
amongst other things, to assist and guide the ACU Chairman and the ACU General 
Manager on the development and implementation of the overall strategy adopted 
by the sport of cricket in dealing with the threat of corruption to the game.
ICC Events. Each of the following: (a) the ICC Cricket World Cup; (b) the ICC World 
Twenty20; (c) the ICC Champions Trophy; (d) the ICC World Cricket League Divisions 
1-8 (inclusive), and any regional qualifying events thereto; (e) the ICC Women’s Cricket 
World Cup; (f) the ICC Under 19 Cricket World Cup; (g) the ICC World Cup Qualifying 
Tournament; (h) the ICC Women’s Cricket World Cup Qualifying Tournament, and 
any regional qualifying events thereto; (i) the ICC World Twenty20 Qualifying 
Tournament; (j) the ICC Under 19 Cricket World Cup Qualifying Tournament, and any 
regional qualifying events thereto; (k) the ICC Intercontinental Cup and Shield; and (l) 
any other event organised or sanctioned by the ICC from time to time to which the 
ICC deems it appropriate that the Anti-Corruption Code should apply. 
ICC	Official.	Any individual bound by the ICC Code of Ethics, including, without 
limitation, Directors.
ICC’s General Counsel. The person appointed by the ICC from time to time to act as 
the ICC’s General Counsel (or his/her designee).
ICC’s	Minimum	Standards	for	Players	and	Match	Officials	Area.  The ICC’s 
Minimum	Standards	for	Players	and	Match	Officials	Area	(a	copy	of	which	is	set	out	
in the ICC’s Operating Manual), as amended from time to time. 
ICC’s Policy on Member Associations with Betting Companies. The ICC’s Policy 
on Member Associations with Betting Companies (a copy of which is set out in the 
ICC’s Operating Manual), as amended from time to time. 
ICC’s Operating Manual. The	ICC’s	Official	Operating	Manual,	as	amended	from	
time to time. APPENDIX 1
DEFINITIONS
Anti-Corruption Code. This Anti-Corruption Code promulgated by the ICC on the 
Effective Date.
ACU. See Anti-Corruption Unit.
Anti-Corruption Unit. The department within the ICC that is mandated, amongst 
other things, to monitor compliance with and investigate potential breaches of the 
Anti-Corruption Code. 
ACU Chairman. The person appointed by the ICC from time to time to act as the 
Chairman of the ACU (or his/her designee). 
ACU General Manager. An appointee of the ICC with supervisory responsibilities in 
relation to the Anti-Corruption Code (or his/her designee).
Agreed Sanction. As	defined	in	Article	5.1.13.
Anti-Corruption Tribunal. A panel of three persons (subject to Article 5.1.6) 
appointed by the Chairman of the ICC Code of Conduct Commission, to perform 
the functions assigned to the Anti-Corruption Tribunal under the Anti-Corruption 
Code. Each member of the Anti-Corruption Tribunal shall be a member of the ICC 
Code of Conduct Commission and the ICC may provide reasonable compensation 
and reimbursement of expenses to such members. 
Associate Member. Any National Cricket Federation with associate member status 
of the ICC.
Bet. Any	wager,	bet	or	other	form	of	financial	speculation.
CAS. The Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne, Switzerland.
Code of Conduct. The ICC’s Code of Conduct for Players and Player Support 
Personnel, as amended from time to time.
Corrupt Conduct. Any act or omission that would amount to an offence under 
Article 2 of this Anti-Corruption Code or the equivalent provisions of the anti-
corruption rules of any National Cricket Federation. 
Demand. As	defined	in	Article	4.3.	
Director. Each	person	serving	as	a	director	(including	alternate	director)	or	officer	of	
the ICC, IBC, IDI or any Associated Company, including for the avoidance of doubt, 
the ICC Chairman and ICC Chief Executive as may be appointed from time to time.
Domestic Match. Any	‘First-Class	Match’,	‘List	A	Limited	Overs	Match’,	or	‘List	A	
Twenty20	Match’,	or	any	‘Other	Match’	played	under	the	sole	control	and	auspices	
of	a	National	Cricket	Federation	and/or	classified	as	Official	Cricket	by	such	National	
Cricket	Federation,	as	those	terms	are	defined	in	the	ICC	Classification	of	Official	
Cricket (as amended from time to time).
Effective Date. As	defined	in	Article	11.3.ICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTSICC ANTI-CORRUPTION CODE  
FOR PARTICIPANTS 17 17
17.30 17.31Player Agent. Any individual who acts in any way (or who has acted in any way in 
the preceding twenty-four (24) months) in the capacity of agent, representative, 
adviser or otherwise in relation to the negotiation, arrangement, registration of 
execution of any employment or commercial agreement for a Player, irrespective of 
whether such individual is registered or licensed to perform such activity within a 
National Cricket Federation or not. 
Player Support Personnel. As	defined	in	Article	1.4.2.
Provisional Hearing. For purposes of Article 4.7, an expedited abbreviated hearing 
before the Chairman of the ICC Code of Conduct Commission (sitting alone) that 
provides the Participant with notice and an opportunity to be heard in either 
written or oral form on whether or not the Provisional Suspension imposed on him/
her should be lifted.
Provisional Suspension. The Participant being temporarily barred from participating 
in the sport of cricket pending determination of a charge that he/she has committed 
an	offence	under	the	Anti-Corruption	Code,	as	set	out	more	specifically	in	Article	4.7.
Reward. A person acts “for Reward” if he/she arranges or agrees that he/she or 
some	other	third	party	will	receive	any	direct	or	indirect	financial	or	other	benefit	
for	that	act	(other	than	official	prize	money	and/or	contracted	payments	under	
playing, service, endorsement, sponsorship or other such similar contracts), and the 
term “Reward” shall be construed accordingly. 
Substantial Assistance. To qualify as Substantial Assistance for purposes of 
Article 6.1.2, a Participant must: (a) fully disclose in a signed witness statement 
all information that he/she possesses in relation to offences under the Anti-
Corruption Code and/or that the ACU reasonably considers may be helpful to it in 
its enforcement of the Anti-Corruption Code; and (b) reasonably cooperate upon 
request by the ICC or any criminal or regulatory authority with the investigation 
and adjudication of any case related to that information, including (for example) 
presenting truthful testimony at a hearing if requested to do so. 
Test Match.	As	defined	by	Section	33	(ICC	Classification	of	Official	Cricket)	of	the	
ICC’s Operating Manual.
Twenty20 International Match.	As	defined	by	Section	33	(ICC	Classification	of	
Official	Cricket)	of	the	ICC’s	Operating	Manual.
Umpire. Any	umpire	(including	any	on-field	umpire,	television	umpire,	third	or 	
fourth umpire) (a) who is appointed (or who has been appointed in the preceding 
twenty-four	(24)	months)	by	the	ICC	or	any	other	relevant	party	to	officiate	in 	
International Matches and/or Domestic Matches, and/or (b) who is subject to an 
unexpired period of Ineligibility imposed on him/her pursuant to this Anti-Corruption 
Code and/or any other anti-corruption rules of any National Cricket Federation. 
Umpire Support Personnel. Any	technical	official	(for	example,	and	without	
limitation,	any	official	with	responsibility	for	operating	the	communication	
equipment for Umpires and Match Referees during an International Match or 
Domestic Match) or umpire coach (a) who is appointed (or who has been appointed 
in the preceding twenty-four (24) months) by the ICC or any other relevant party 
to support the Umpires and/or Match Referees in their appointments to any 
International Match or Domestic Match, and/or (b) who is subject to an unexpired 
period of Ineligibility imposed on him/her pursuant to this Anti-Corruption Code 
and/or the anti-corruption rules of any National Cricket Federation.Ineligibility. The	Participant	being	barred	for	a	specified	period	of	time	from	
participation	in	the	sport	of	cricket,	as	set	out	more	specifically	in	Article	6.5.
Inside Information. Any information relating to any Match that a Participant 
possesses by virtue of his/her position within the sport. Such information includes, 
but is not limited to, factual information regarding the competitors in the Match, the 
conditions, tactical considerations or any other aspect of the Match, but does not 
include any such information that is already published or a matter of public record, 
that may be readily acquired by an interested member of the public, or that has been 
disclosed according to the rules and regulations governing the relevant Match. 
International Match. Each of the following (in men’s and women’s cricket): (a) 
any Test Match, One Day International Match or Twenty20 International Match; 
(b) any Match played as part of an ICC Event; (c) any other Match played between 
representative sides of any National Cricket Federation at Under 19 level or above; 
(d) any International Tour Match; and (e) any other Match organised or sanctioned 
by the ICC from time to time to which the ICC deems it appropriate that the Anti-
Corruption Code should apply.
International Tour Match. Any Match played between a representative team of a 
Full Member (or Associate Member with Test and/or ODI or T20I Status) and any 
domestic, guest or invitational team. 
Match. A cricket match of any format and duration in length in which two cricket teams 
compete against each other either at international level (i.e., an International Match, 
including an International Tour Match) or at national level (i.e., a Domestic Match). 
Match Referee. Any independent person (a) who is appointed (or who has been 
appointed in the preceding twenty-four (24) months) by the ICC or any other 
relevant	party	as	the	official	match	referee	for	a	designated	International	Match	
or Domestic Match, whether such Match Referee carries out his/her functions 
remotely or otherwise, and/or (b) who is subject to an unexpired period of 
Ineligibility imposed on him/her pursuant to this Anti-Corruption Code and/or any 
other anti-corruption rules of any National Cricket Federation. 
Mobile Device. Any portable device (including, without limitation, a personal 
digital assistant (PDA), blackberry, mobile phone, iPhone, iPad or iWatch) which 
is capable of connecting to or using any mobile telecommunications technology 
to enable or facilitate transmission of textual material, data, voice, video or 
multimedia services.
National Cricket Federation. A national or regional entity that is a member of or is 
recognised by the ICC as the entity governing the sport of cricket in a country (or 
collective group of countries associated for cricket purposes). 
Notice of Charge. As	defined	in	Article	4.6.
One Day International Match.	As	defined	by	Section	33	(ICC	Classification	of	
Official	Cricket)	of	the	ICC’s	Operating	Manual.	
Pitch Curator. Any individual who acts as a pitch curator or groundsman (or who 
has acted in such capacity at any time in the preceding twenty-four (24) months) at 
any	stadium	or	venue	affiliated	(whether	through	a	club,	franchise,	county,	province	
or otherwise) to any National Cricket Federation. 
Player. As	defined	in	Article	1.4.1.18.1DEFINITIONS
In these Illegal Bowling Regulations the following words and phrases have the 
following meanings:
Accredited Testing Centre: any laboratory or testing centre accredited by the ICC to 
conduct analysis of bowling actions pursuant to the ICC Standard Analysis Protocols.
Appointed Specialist:	as	defined	in	Article	4.1.4	and	paragraph	1	of	Annexure	1.
Effective Date: as	defined	in	Article	13.3.
Elbow Extension: the motion that occurs when a Player’s arm moves from a  
flexed	(bent)	position	at	the	elbow,	to	a	more	extended	(straight)	position	  
(full Elbow Extension occurs when the arm is straight).
Elbow Hyperextension: the motion that occurs when a Player’s elbow extends 
beyond the straight position.
Event Panel:	as	defined	in	Article	4.9.
Event Panel Analysis:	as	defined	in	Article	4.9.
Event Panel Report:	as	defined	in	Article	5.7.
Expert Panel: as	defined	in	Article	4.7.
Expert Panel Analysis:	as	defined	in	Article	4.7.
Expert Panel Report:	as	defined	in	Article	5.5.
ICC: the International Cricket Council or its designee.
ICC Panel of Human Movement Specialists:	the	panel	of	appropriately	qualified	
independent expert human movement specialists appointed by the ICC for the 
purposes of these Illegal Bowling Regulations.
Illegal Bowling Action:	as	defined	in	Article	2.1.
Independent Assessment:	as	defined	in	Article	4.1.
Independent Assessment Report:	as	defined	in	Article	5.1.
International Cricket: (a) Test Matches, One Day International Matches and 
Twenty20 International Matches (Men’s and Women’s); and (b) Matches that form 
part of the following ICC events (Men’s and Women’s) (whether or not such Match 
also constitutes a One Day or Twenty20 International) ICC Under 19 Cricket World 
Cup,	ICC	World	Cricket	League	Championship,	ICC	Cricket	World	Cup	Qualifier,	
ICC	World	Twenty20	Qualifier,	ICC	Under	19	Cricket	World	Cup	Global	Qualifier,	
ICC Intercontinental Cup and any other event organised or sanctioned by the ICC 
from time to time to which the ICC deems it appropriate that these Illegal Bowling 
Regulations should apply.
Judicial Commissioner: the independent person appointed by the ICC from the 
ICC Code of Conduct Commission to perform the functions assigned to the Judicial 
Commissioner pursuant to Article 8. 
Major ICC Event: the ICC Cricket World Cup (Men’s and Women’s), the  
ICC Champions Trophy and/or the ICC World Twenty20 (Men’s and Women’s).
Match: any match played in International Cricket (excluding warm-up and  
practice matches). ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW 
OF BOWLERS WITH SUSPECTED 
ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS
 18
ICC REGULATIONS FOR  
THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECT  
ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS  
ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.2 18.3INTRODUCTION
The ICC is responsible for the global governance of the sport of cricket. Historically, 
the regulation of what constitutes a legal bowling action has been governed by 
Law 21.2 of the Laws of Cricket, which state:
For a delivery to be fair in respect of the arm the ball must not be thrown; and
A ball is fairly delivered in respect of the arm if, once the bowler’s arm has reached 
the level of the shoulder in the delivery swing, the elbow joint is not straightened 
partially	or	completely	from	that	point	until	the	ball	has	left	the	hand.	This	definition	
shall	not	debar	a	bowler	from	flexing	or	rotating	the	wrist	in	the	delivery	swing.
Scientific	research	revealed	that	almost	all	bowling	actions	contained	some	degree	
of straightening at the elbow (referred to in these Illegal Bowling Regulations as 
“Elbow Extension”). In theory, therefore, the vast majority of bowlers, with actions 
considered by umpires to be legal under the Laws of Cricket, were contravening 
Law 21.2 each time they delivered the ball. It was also demonstrated in studies 
by human movement specialists that such Elbow Extension in a bowling action 
became	noticeable	to	the	naked	eye	–	and	started	to	look	like	a	throw	–	when	it	
exceeded 15 degrees.
In order to ensure that the intention behind Law 21.2 was upheld and that 
the distinction between bowling and throwing the ball remained, the ICC has 
introduced regulations stipulating a maximum degree of permitted Elbow 
Extension in a bowling action. As with other regulations and Playing Conditions 
issued by the ICC, these Illegal Bowling Regulations modify the Laws of Cricket  
as applied to cricket played under the ICC’s jurisdiction.
An	Illegal	Bowling	Action	is	defined	in	these	Illegal	Bowling	Regulations	as	a	
bowling action where a bowler’s Elbow Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured 
from the point at which the bowling arm reaches the horizontal until the point at 
which the ball is released (any Elbow Hyperextension shall be discounted for the 
purposes of determining an Illegal Bowling Action).
These Illegal Bowling Regulations have therefore been adopted and implemented 
by the ICC for the following reasons:
i) to provide a consistent framework for the regulation of bowling actions;
ii)	 to	ensure	a	level	playing	field	for	cricket	played	under	the	ICC’s	jurisdiction,	  
by ensuring that bowlers are not able to gain potential advantages through 
the use of an Illegal Bowling Action; 
iii)	 to	provide	a	procedure	under	which	both	suspected	and	confirmed	Illegal	
Bowling	Actions	in	International	Cricket	can	be	dealt	with	fairly,	efficiently	
and with certainty; and
iv) to coordinate the approach taken in domestic cricket to the testing of 
suspected	Illegal	Bowling	Actions	–	and	the	consequences	of	confirmed	
Illegal	Bowling	Actions	–	between	National	Cricket	Federations	and	the	ICC.
 Unless otherwise indicated, references to Articles, Annexures and Appendices 
are to provisions of these Illegal Bowling Regulations. Capitalised words are 
defined	terms	and	their	definitions	are	set	out	above.Match	Officials’	Report:	as	defined	in	Article	3.1.
Match Referee: the referee who is appointed for and in attendance at the relevant 
Match. A Match Referee operating remotely shall not be considered a Match 
Referee for the purposes of these Illegal Bowling Regulations.
National Cricket Federation: the member board recognised by the ICC as the 
entity governing the sport of cricket in a country (or collective group of countries 
associated for cricket purposes) that the Player represents in International Cricket.
Notice of Appeal:	as	defined	in	Article	8.3.
One Day International Match:	as	defined	by	Section	33	(ICC	Classification	of	Official	
Cricket) of the ICC’s Operating Manual.
Other International Match: a Match that is not a Test Match, One Day International 
Match	or	Twenty20	International	Match	and	that	is	not	part	of	a	Specified	Event.
Player Attendance Form:	the	form	signed	by	the	Player	confirming	their	
attendance at and the date of an Independent Assessment.
Player(s): a cricketer who participates or has participated in International Cricket.
Re-Assessment: as	defined	in	Article	4.5.	
Specific	Variation:	a	mode	of	delivery	that	is	identifiably	and	significantly	different	
from a bowler’s Standard Delivery Type in respect of either the pace of the delivery, 
the axis or amount of rotation imparted on the ball and/or the method of release 
of the ball from the hand. Deliveries where a Player’s basic bowling technique 
is	accompanied	by	additional	effort	in	order	to	produce	a	modified	version	of	a	
Player’s Standard Delivery Type (such as a bouncer or yorker length delivery)  
do	not	constitute	Specific	Variations.
Specified	Event(s): the ICC Under 19 Cricket World Cup, the ICC Cricket World  
Cup	Qualifier	(Men’s	and	Women’s)	and	the	ICC	World	Twenty20	Qualifier	  
(Men’s and Women’s).
Standard Analysis Protocols: the ICC Standardised Protocols for the Assessment 
of Suspected Illegal Bowling Actions, as may be amended from time to time, which 
sets out the test methods and protocols developed for and on behalf of the ICC  
to analyse bowling actions, a summary of which is set out in Annexure 1.
Standard Delivery Type: the mode of delivery primarily used by a bowler, which 
shall include deliveries of different lines and lengths and from different positions  
on	the	crease,	but	which	shall	not	include	any	Specific	Variations.
Test Match: as	defined	by	Section	33	(ICC	Classification	of	Official	Cricket)	of	the	
ICC’s Operating Manual.
Testing Team: the individuals conducting an Independent Assessment, led by the 
Appointed Specialist.
Twenty20 International Match:	as	defined	by	Section	33	(ICC	Classification	of	Official 	
Cricket) of the ICC’s Operating Manual, save that in the case of women’s Twenty20 
International Matches, only those Twenty20 International Matches played between 
the	top	ten	ranked	women’s	teams	on	the	ICC’s	official	Women’s	[Team/ODI]	rankings 	
as	at	the	date	of	the	relevant	Match	will	be	considered	to	fall	within	the	definition	of 	
Twenty20 International Matches for the purposes of these Regulations.
Umpire:	an	on-field,	TV	or	reserve	umpire	appointed	to	officiate	in	a	Match	in	
International Cricket.ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.4 18.5 3.3	 In	considering	whether	to	submit	a	Match	Officials’	Report	under	these 	
Illegal Bowling Regulations, Umpires and Match Referees should use 
the naked eye viewing the Player’s bowling action live and/or on video 
footage at normal speed. Slow motion video footage should only be used 
to	confirm	initial	suspicions	of	a	Player’s	use	of	an	Illegal	Bowling	Action.
 Test Matches, One Day International Matches and Twenty20  
International Matches
 3.4	 Where	a	Match	Officials’	Report	is	submitted	in	relation	to	a	Test	Match,	
One Day International Match or Twenty20 International Match, the 
following procedure shall be applied:
 3.4.1 within 24 hours of the conclusion of the Match in which the Player 
is reported, the Umpire(s) and/or the Match Referee shall provide 
the Player’s team manager and the ICC with a copy of the Match 
Officials’	Report;
 3.4.2 once the Player’s team manager and the ICC have been provided 
with	a	copy	of	the	Match	Officials’	Report	and	within	24	hours 	
thereof, the ICC shall make a media statement to the effect that 
the Player has been reported as having a suspected Illegal Bowling 
Action and shall be subject to the review process set out herein;
 3.4.3 the ICC shall immediately write to the Player’s National Cricket 
Federation	confirming	that	the	Player	has	been	reported	for	a	
suspected	Illegal	Bowling	Action,	enclosing	the	Match	Officials’	
Report and informing the Player’s National Cricket Federation 
that the Player shall be required to submit to an Independent 
Assessment in accordance with Article 4.1;
	 3.4.4	 if	the	Match	was	televised,	upon	receipt	of	the	Match	Officials’	
Report from the Match Referee, the ICC shall, as soon as possible, 
provide details to the Player’s National Cricket Federation of a 
link at which video footage of the Player’s bowling in the relevant 
Match (whether sourced from the television coverage of the 
Match or from a third party) can be downloaded;
 3.4.5 if no video footage is available and the ICC is unable to source 
adequate video footage of the Player’s bowling in the Match 
from	any	third	party,	upon	receipt	of	the	Match	Officials’	Report	
from the Match Referee, the ICC shall immediately write to 
the	Player’s	National	Cricket	Federation	confirming	that	the	
Player has been reported for a suspected Illegal Bowling Action, 
enclosing	 the	relevant	Match	Officials’	 Report	and	requesting	 that	
the National Cricket Federation provide to the ICC within 7 days 
any relevant video footage of the Player’s bowling (whether in 
training or matches) that they are able to access.
 Other International Matches
 3.5	 Where	a	Match	Officials’	Report	is	submitted	in	relation	to	an	Other	
International Match, the following procedure shall be applied:
 3.5.1 within 48 hours of the conclusion of the Match in which the 
Player is reported, the Umpire(s) and/or the Match Referee shall 
provide the Player’s team manager and the ICC with a copy of  
the	Match	Officials’	Report; 1 SCOPE AND APPLICATION
 1.1 All Players are automatically bound by and required to comply with 
all of the provisions of these Illegal Bowling Regulations. Accordingly, 
by their participation in an International Match, such Players shall be 
deemed to have agreed: 
 1.1.1 to submit to any Independent Assessment convened under these 
Illegal	Bowling	Regulations	pursuant	to	a	Match	Officials’	Report	
of a suspected Illegal Bowling Action; 
 1.1.2 to submit to the jurisdiction of the Judicial Commissioner  
in respect of any Notice of Appeal pursuant to these Illegal 
Bowling Regulations;
 1.1.3 not to bring any proceedings in any court or other forum that are 
inconsistent with the foregoing submission to the jurisdiction of 
the Judicial Commissioner.
 1.2 Without prejudice to Article 1.1, the ICC and the National Cricket 
Federations shall be responsible for promoting awareness of what 
constitutes an Illegal Bowling Action and these Illegal Bowling 
Regulations amongst all Players.
 2 ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS
 2.1 An Illegal Bowling Action is a bowling action where the Player’s 
Elbow Extension exceeds 15 degrees, measured using the Standard 
Analysis Protocols from the point at which the bowling arm reaches 
the horizontal until the point at which the ball is released. Any Elbow 
Hyperextension shall be discounted for the purposes of determining  
an Illegal Bowling Action.
 2.2 Nothing contained herein shall override an Umpire’s responsibility and 
discretion	to	apply	Law	24	of	the	Laws	of	Cricket,	as	modified	by	Article	  
2.1 above.
 3 REPORTING PROCEDURE FOR A SUSPECTED ILLEGAL  
BOWLING ACTION
 3.1 Any one of the following individuals may, at the conclusion of a Match 
in	which	they	have	officiated,	submit	a	report	by	completing	the	
template ICC Bowling Action Report Form (a “Match	Officials’	Report”):
 3.1.1 an Umpire; and/or
 3.1.2 a Match Referee.
 3.2	 A	Match	Officials’	Report	shall	be	submitted	where	a	Player	is	either	
called by an Umpire under the provisions of Law 24.2 of the Laws of 
Cricket or is suspected by an Umpire and/or the Match Referee of 
bowling	with	an	Illegal	Bowling	Action.	The	Match	Officials’	Report	shall	
detail their concerns about the bowling action of a Player including 
whether those concerns relate to the Player’s Standard Delivery Type or 
one	or	more	Specific	Variations.ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.6 18.7	 Specified	Events
 3.6	 Where	a	Match	Officials’	Report	is	submitted	in	relation	to	a	Match	forming 	
part	of	a	Specified	Event,	the	following	procedure	shall	be	applied:
 3.6.1 within 24 hours of the conclusion of the Match in which the 
Player is reported, the Umpire(s) and/or the Match Referee shall 
provide the Player’s team manager and the ICC with a copy of the 
Match	Officials’	Report.	At	the	same	time	the	ICC	shall	provide	a	
copy	of	the	Match	Officials’	 Report	to	the	Event	Panel	for	analysis;
 3.6.2 if the Match in which the Player was reported was televised, 
the ICC shall, as soon as possible, provide details to the Player’s 
National Cricket Federation and the Event Panel of a link at 
which a copy of the video footage of the bowling of the Player 
in the relevant Match can be downloaded. If no video footage is 
available, the Event Panel shall make arrangements to record the 
Player’s	bowling	in	the	next	Match(es)	in	the	Specified	Event	in 	
which they participate. In addition, even where video footage of 
the Match in which the Player was reported is available, the Event 
Panel may, in their sole discretion, make arrangements to record 
the	Player’s	bowling	in	the	next	Match(es)	in	the	Specified	Event 	
in which they participate to assist them in their analysis. Copies 
of any video footage collated by the Event Panel pursuant to this 
Article 3.6.2 shall be made available to the Player’s National Cricket 
Federation by the ICC via a download link, unless exceptional 
circumstances exist, as soon as reasonably practicable.
 4 EVALUATION OF BOWLING ACTIONS
 Independent Assessment
 4.1 Where a Player is reported for a suspected Illegal Bowling Action pursuant 
to Article 3.4, they shall be required to submit to an independent analysis 
of their bowling action (the “Independent Assessment”) which shall be 
carried out in accordance with the following procedure:
 4.1.1 the Independent Assessment shall be carried out as soon as 
reasonably practicable and, unless exceptional circumstances 
exist, within 14 days of receipt by the Player’s National Cricket 
Federation of the notice referred to in Article 3.4.3;
 4.1.2 in the event of a Player being reported during a Match in a Major 
ICC Event, the Independent Assessment shall be carried out on an 
expedited basis. Accordingly, unless exceptional circumstances 
exist, the Independent Assessment shall be carried out within a 
period of 72 hours from the time of the ICC’s receipt of the Match 
Officials’	Report;
 4.1.3 the ICC shall be responsible for liaising with the Player’s National 
Cricket Federation in order to determine the date and time 
at which the Independent Assessment shall be carried out 
and shall ensure that the Player, through the Player’s National 
Cricket Federation, is given reasonable notice thereof. All travel 
and accommodation arrangements shall be made by the ICC in 
consultation with the Player’s National Cricket Federation; 3.5.2 once the Player’s team manager and the ICC have been provided 
with	a	copy	of	the	Match	Officials’	Report	and	within	24	hours	
thereof, the ICC shall make a media statement to the effect 
that the Player has been reported as having a suspected Illegal 
Bowling Action and shall be subject to the review process as set 
out herein;
	 3.5.3	 upon	receipt	of	the	Match	Officials’	Report	from	the	Umpire(s)	
and/or the Match Referee, the ICC shall immediately write to 
the	Player’s	National	Cricket	Federation	confirming	that	the	
Player has been reported for a suspected Illegal Bowling Action, 
enclosing	a	copy	of	the	Match	Officials’	Report	and	informing	
the Player’s National Cricket Federation that the Player’s bowling 
action shall be reported to the Expert Panel for analysis;
 3.5.4 if the Match in which the Player was reported was televised or if 
the ICC has otherwise been able to source adequate video footage 
of the Player’s bowling, the ICC shall, as soon as possible, provide 
details to the Player’s National Cricket Federation of a link at which 
a copy of video footage of the bowling of the Player in the relevant 
Match can be downloaded;
	 3.5.5	 if	no	video	footage	is	available,	upon	receipt	of	the	Match	Officials’ 	
Report from the Match Referee, the ICC shall immediately write to 
the	Player’s	National	Cricket	Federation	confirming	that	the	Player 	
has been reported for a suspected Illegal Bowling Action, enclosing 
the	relevant	Match	Officials’	Report	and	requesting	that	the 	
National Cricket Federation provide to the ICC within 7 days any 
relevant video footage of the Player’s bowling (whether in training 
or matches) that they are able to access;
 3.5.6 if no such video footage is available, to assist with the Expert Panel 
Analysis, the Player’s National Cricket Federation shall be required 
to arrange for all of the Player’s bowling in their next Match or 
domestic match (whichever is the earlier) to be recorded in the 
manner determined and communicated to them by the ICC, and 
shall submit that video footage to the ICC within 48 hours of the 
conclusion of the relevant Match or domestic match;
 3.5.7 In circumstances where the relevant Match was not televised and 
where the Player’s National Cricket Federation fails to provide 
either acceptable video footage (in the ICC’s sole discretion) 
or video footage of all the Player’s bowling in their next match, 
whether international or domestic, within the period prescribed 
in Article 3.5.6 above, the Player shall automatically be suspended 
from bowling in International Cricket until such time as the Player 
submits to a review of their bowling action by an Expert Panel, 
with the precise terms of such review (including but not limited to 
a requirement that the Player’s National Cricket Federation provide 
acceptable video footage prior to undertaking the review) to be 
determined by the Expert Panel in their sole discretion.ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.8 18.9 Re-Assessment
 4.5 Subject to the provisions of Article 6.12 (in which case a period of 1 year 
from the date of suspension must be observed), a Player who has been 
suspended from bowling in International Cricket under these Illegal 
Bowling Regulations (or from a National Cricket Federation’s domestic 
cricket pursuant to Article 10.2) may, at any time, apply to the ICC for an 
independent re-assessment of their bowling action (a “Re-Assessment”), 
which shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure for the 
Independent Assessment in Article 4.1 above, save that:
 4.5.1 the Player shall be required to identify, prior to the Re-Assessment, 
their	Standard	Delivery	Type	and	any	Specific	Variations	which 	
they wish to bowl during the Re-Assessment;
 4.5.2 Article 5.2.1, Article 5.2.4 and Article 6.1.2 shall not be applicable; and
 4.5.3 all provisions of the Standard Analysis Protocols relating to the 
replication of a Player’s previous match bowling action shall not 
be applicable.
 4.6 The validated Independent Assessment Report resulting from the  
Re-Assessment shall stand in the place of the original validated Independent 
Assessment Report, Expert Panel Report and/or Event Panel Report (as 
applicable) and the provisions of these Illegal Bowling Regulations shall apply 
in respect of it. The validated Independent Assessment Report resulting from 
such Re-Assessment (and, where deemed appropriate by the ICC, video 
footage from the Re-Assessment) shall be made available by the ICC to 
relevant Umpires and/or Match Referees.
 Expert Panel Analysis
 4.7 Where a Player is reported for a suspected Illegal Bowling Action 
pursuant	to	Article	3.5,	the	Match	Officials’	Report	shall	be	referred	to	a	
panel of two members of the ICC Panel of Human Movement Specialists 
(the “Expert Panel”) to conduct a review of the Player’s bowling action 
(the “Expert Panel Analysis”), which shall be carried out in accordance 
with the following procedure:
 4.7.1 the Expert Panel shall be appointed by the ICC within 48 hours of 
the	ICC’s	receipt	of	the	Match	Officials’	Report.	The	members	of	the 	
Expert Panel shall, wherever possible, be from countries other than 
the country that the Player represents in International Cricket;
 4.7.2 in order to conduct their review, the Expert Panel shall review 
either the video footage of the Player’s bowling in the Match in 
which the Player was reported or the video footage provided by 
the Player’s National Cricket Federation in accordance with Articles 
3.5.6 and 3.5.7 (as applicable) in order to conclude (unanimously) 
whether the Player bowls with an Illegal Bowling Action;
 4.7.3 the Expert Panel shall carry out its review (whether in person 
or via telephone or video-conference) as soon as reasonably 
practicable and, unless exceptional circumstances exist, within  
7 days of either (a) in the case of a televised Match, receipt by the 
Player’s National Cricket Federation of the notice referred to in 
Article 3.5.3, or (b) in the case of a non-televised Match, the ICC’s 
receipt of the video footage from the Player’s National Cricket 
Federation pursuant to Articles 3.5.6 and 3.5.7; 4.1.4 the Independent Assessment shall be supervised by a member of 
the ICC Panel of Human Movement Specialists (the “Appointed 
Specialist”) appointed by the ICC in its sole discretion. The 
Independent Assessment shall take place at an Accredited 
Testing Centre, appointed by the ICC in consultation with the 
Player’s National Cricket Federation;
 4.1.5 when appointing an Appointed Specialist or an Accredited Testing 
Centre, the ICC’s preference where possible will be to test the Player 
at an Accredited Testing Centre in a country other than their own 
country, and for the Independent Assessment to be conducted 
by an Appointed Specialist from a county other than the Player’s. 
However, each Accredited Testing Centre is fully independent of 
the ICC and National Cricket Federations and therefore it may be 
necessary for an Independent Assessment to be conducted by 
an Appointed Specialist from the Player’s home country, or at an 
Accredited Testing Centre in the Player’s home country;
 4.1.6 the Independent Assessment shall be carried out in accordance with 
the Standard Analysis Protocols set out in Annexure 1 and shall take 
into	account	the	Match	Officials’	Report.	During	the	Independent 	
Assessment,	the	Player	shall	be	required	to	replicate	the	specific 	
bowling action for which they were reported. If the Player expresses 
any concern or complaint regarding the circumstances or conduct 
of the Independent Assessment, they should make these known to 
the Appointed Specialist before the completion of the Independent 
Assessment. The Player shall note the relevant concern or complaint 
on the Player Attendance Form, which the Appointed Specialist shall 
include with the Independent Assessment Report.
 4.2 In the event of the Player failing to submit to the Independent 
Assessment within the deadlines referred to in Articles 4.1.1 and 4.1.2 
by reason of any action, inaction or otherwise of the Player (including 
injury), they shall be immediately suspended from bowling in 
International Cricket until such time as they submit to an Independent 
Assessment which determines that they do not use an Illegal Bowling 
Action. If the Independent Assessment does not take place within the 
stipulated deadline by reason of any action, inaction or otherwise of the 
ICC, the Player shall not be suspended pursuant to this Article 4.2.
 4.3 Subject to the provisions of Article 4.2 above and Article 4.4 below, 
throughout the period up to the date of receipt by the Player’s National 
Cricket Federation of the validated Independent Assessment Report, the 
Player shall be permitted to continue bowling in International Cricket. At 
any time throughout this period the Player is subject to being called on the 
field	by	the	Umpire(s)	in	accordance	with	Law	24.2	and	the	consequences 	
of being called under Law 24.2 shall apply. During this period a further 
Match	Officials’	Report	shall,	however,	have	no	consequence.
 4.4	 A	Player	who	is	the	subject	of	a	Match	Officials’	Report	in	an	Other	
International	Match	or	a	Specified	Event	shall,	irrespective	of	the	
conclusion of the Expert Panel or Event Panel (as applicable), not 
be permitted to bowl in a Major ICC Event without submitting to an 
Independent Assessment which results in a validated Independent 
Assessment Report that determines that the Player is able to bowl 
without using an Illegal Bowling Action.ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.10 18.11 5 FORMAT OF RESULTS
 Independent Assessment
 5.1 As soon as reasonably possible and, unless exceptional circumstances 
exist, at the latest within 10 days of the date on which the Independent 
Assessment or Re-Assessment was carried out, the Appointed Specialist 
shall provide the ICC with a detailed written report (the “ Independent 
Assessment Report”) in the form prescribed by the ICC and set out at 
Appendix 1.
 5.2 The Independent Assessment Report shall indicate:
 5.2.1 whether the Player’s bowling action during the Independent 
Assessment was, in the opinion of the Appointed Specialist, 
materially different to their bowling action in the video footage 
from	the	Match	in	which	the	Match	Officials’	Report	was	submitted 	
(both	in	respect	of	their	Standard	Delivery	Type	and	any	Specific 	
Variations	(if	any)	identified	in	the	Match	Officials’	Report);
 5.2.2 the Elbow Extension measured in the Independent Assessment  
in respect of their Standard Delivery Type;
 5.2.3 the Elbow Extension measured in the Independent Assessment  
in	respect	of	each	Specific	Variation;
 5.2.4 whether, in the opinion of the Appointed Specialist, the conclusion 
in Articles 5.2.2 and 5.2.3 above is consistent with the relevant 
video footage provided pursuant to Articles 3.4.4 and 3.4.5.
 5.3 Immediately upon receipt of the Independent Assessment Report, 
the ICC shall send the Independent Assessment Report to at least one 
member of the ICC Panel of Human Movement Specialists (who shall 
not have had any prior involvement with the case) for review and 
validation of the determination in the Independent Assessment Report 
as to whether the Player uses an Illegal Bowling Action.
 5.4 Immediately upon receipt of the validated Independent Assessment 
Report and regardless of the determination contained therein in respect 
of the use of an Illegal Bowling Action, the ICC shall provide the Player’s 
National Cricket Federation with a copy thereof.
 Expert Panel Report
 5.5 The Expert Panel shall, unless exceptional circumstances exist, provide 
a written report to the ICC (the “Expert Panel Report”) within 14 days 
of either (a) in the case of a televised Match, receipt by the Player’s 
National Cricket Federation of the notice referred to in Article 3.5.3, or 
(b) in the case of a non-televised Match, receipt of the video footage 
provided by the National Cricket Federation pursuant to Articles 3.5.6 
and 3.5.7. The Expert Panel Report shall contain:
	 5.5.1	 details	of	the	Match	following	which	the	relevant	Match	Officials’	
Report was submitted;
 5.5.2 details of any relevant observations made by the Umpires and/
or	Match	Referee	in	the	Match	Officials’	Report	in	relation	to	the	
Player’s bowling action;
 5.5.3 relevant still images from the video footage examined by the 
Expert Panel; 4.7.4 in considering the video footage of the Player and conducting  
its analysis the Expert Panel shall use its experience and technical 
expertise to arrive at an assessment of whether the Player  
uses	an	Illegal	Bowling	Action	as	defined	within	these	Illegal	
Bowling Regulations;
 4.8 Subject to the provisions of Article 4.4, throughout the period up to the 
date of receipt of the Expert Panel Report, the Player shall be permitted 
to continue bowling in International Cricket. At any time throughout this 
period	the	Player	is	subject	to	being	called	on	the	field	by	the	Umpire(s)	
in accordance with Law 24.2 and the consequences of being called 
under	Law	24.2	shall	apply.	During	this	period	a	further	Match	Officials’	
Report shall, however, have no consequence.
 Event Panel Analysis
 4.9 Where a Player is reported for a suspected Illegal Bowling Action 
pursuant	to	Article	3.6,	the	Match	Officials’	Report	shall	be	referred	to	
the bowling action review panel appointed by the ICC in advance of the 
relevant	Specified	Event	(the	“Event Panel”, which shall comprise of at 
least two and at a maximum three members) to conduct a review of the 
Player’s bowling action (the “Event Panel Analysis”).
 4.10 The members of the Event Panel shall be drawn from any one or more 
of the following: the ICC Panel of Human Movement Specialists, the 
ICC’s High Performance Manager or any other independent persons 
with the relevant area of expertise as may be required in the opinion 
of	the	ICC	General	Manager	–	Cricket.	Members	of	the	Event	Panel	may	
be	in	attendance	at	the	Specified	Event,	or	they	may	operate	remotely	
to undertake the Event Panel Analysis, which shall be carried out in 
accordance with the following procedure:
 4.10.1 the Event Panel shall carry out the Event Panel Analysis as soon 
as reasonably practicable and, unless exceptional circumstances 
exist,	within	3	days	of	their	receipt	of	the	Match	Officials’	Report;
 4.10.2 in order to conduct their analysis, the Event Panel shall review 
either the video footage of the Player’s bowling in the Match 
in which the Player was reported, if available, and/or the video 
footage of the Player’s bowling action that they have collated 
themselves in order to use their experience and technical expertise 
to arrive at a conclusion as to whether the Player uses an Illegal 
Bowling	Action	as	defined	within	these	Illegal	Bowling	Regulations;
 4.11 Subject to the provisions of Article 4.4, throughout the period up to the 
date of receipt of the Event Panel Report, the Player shall be permitted 
to continue bowling in International Cricket. At any time throughout this 
period	the	Player	is	subject	to	being	called	on	the	field	by	the	Umpire(s)	
in accordance with Law 24.2 and the consequences of being called 
under	Law	24.2	shall	apply.	During	this	period	a	further	Match	Officials’	
Report shall, however, have no consequence.ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.12 18.13 6.2 Where the validated Independent Assessment Report determines that the 
Player used an Illegal Bowling Action during the Independent Assessment 
in	respect	of	one	or	more	Specific	Variations	only	(and	that	their	Standard 	
Delivery Type did not use an Illegal Bowling Action) the Player shall be 
allowed to continue bowling in International Cricket, subject to the warning 
that	should	they	continue	to	bowl	the	Specific	Variation(s)	for	which 	
they have been found to have an Illegal Bowling Action, they will run the 
risk of being reported for a second time. In these circumstances a further 
Match	Officials’	Report	resulting	in	a	validated	Independent	Assessment 	
Report determining that the Player has used an Illegal Bowling Action for 
a	Specific	Variation	shall	result	in	the	immediate	suspension	of	the	Player 	
from bowling in International Cricket. Such suspension shall be considered a 
second suspension under the provisions of Article 6.12.
 6.3 Where a validated Independent Assessment Report determines that 
the Player does not use an Illegal Bowling Action, the Player shall be 
permitted to continue bowling in International Cricket. The ICC shall 
communicate this determination to any relevant National Cricket 
Federations, Umpires and/or Match Referees and shall as soon as 
reasonably practicable issue a media statement to the effect that the 
Player has been determined by an Independent Assessment not to use 
an Illegal Bowling Action.
 6.4 In the event of a Re-Assessment conducted pursuant to Article 4.5 
determining that the Player is able to bowl without using an Illegal 
Bowling Action, the Player’s suspension shall be lifted and they shall 
be permitted to resume bowling in International Cricket immediately. 
The ICC shall communicate this determination to any relevant National 
Cricket Federations, Umpires and/or Match Referees and shall as soon as 
reasonably practicable issue a media statement to the effect that, upon 
Re-Assessment, the Player has been determined by an Independent 
Assessment to be able to bowl without using an Illegal Bowling Action.
 Expert Panel Analysis
 6.5 Where the Expert Panel Report concludes that the Player uses an 
Illegal Bowling Action, the Player shall be immediately suspended from 
bowling in International Cricket.
 6.6 Where the Expert Panel Report concludes that the Player does not use 
an Illegal Bowling Action, the Player shall be permitted to continue 
bowling in International Cricket.
 Event Panel Analysis
 6.7 Where the Event Panel Report concludes that the Player uses an Illegal 
Bowling Action, the Player shall be immediately suspended from 
bowling in International Cricket.
 6.8 Where the Event Panel Report concludes that the Player does not use 
an Illegal Bowling Action, the Player shall be permitted to continue 
bowling in International Cricket. 5.5.4 an analysis of the degree of Elbow Extension used by the Player 
in their bowling action;
 5.5.5 a conclusion as to whether the Player uses an Illegal Bowling 
Action	as	defined	in	Article	2.1	of	these	Illegal	Bowling	Regulations. 	
 5.6 Upon receipt of the Expert Panel Report, the ICC shall immediately 
write to the Player’s National Cricket Federation enclosing a copy of the 
Expert	Panel	Report	and	confirming	the	outcome	thereof.
 Event Panel Report
 5.7 The Event Panel shall provide a written report to the ICC (the “ Event 
Panel Report”), unless exceptional circumstances exist, within 7 days of 
receipt	by	them	of	the	Match	Officials’	Report.	The	Event	Panel	Report	
shall contain:
	 5.7.1	 details	of	the	Match	following	which	the	relevant	Match	Officials’	
Report was submitted;
 5.7.2 details of any relevant observations made by the Umpires and/
or	Match	Referee	in	the	Match	Officials’	Report	in	relation	to	the	
Player’s bowling action;
 5.7.3 relevant still images from the video footage examined by the 
Expert Panel;
 5.7.4 an analysis of the degree of Elbow Extension used by the Player 
in their bowling action;
 5.7.5 a conclusion as to whether the Player uses an Illegal Bowling 
Action	as	defined	in	Article	2.1	of	these	Illegal	Bowling	Regulations. 	
 5.8 Upon receipt of the Event Panel Report, the ICC shall immediately write 
to the Player’s National Cricket Federation enclosing a copy of the Event 
Panel	Report	and	confirming	the	outcome	thereof.
 6 CONSEQUENCES OF RESULTS
 Independent Assessment
 6.1 Subject to Article 6.2 below, where the validated Independent 
Assessment Report determines either:
 6.1.1 that the Player used an Illegal Bowling Action in respect of their 
Standard Delivery Type during the Independent Assessment 
and that such conclusion is consistent with the relevant video 
footage; or
 6.1.2 that the Player’s bowling action during the Independent 
Assessment was materially different to their bowling action 
in	the	Match	in	respect	of	which	the	relevant	Match	Officials’	
Report was submitted, 
  the Player shall immediately be suspended from bowling in 
International Cricket. The suspension shall be effective from the 
date of receipt by the Player’s National Cricket Federation of a 
copy of the validated Independent Assessment Report pursuant 
to Article 5.4.ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.14 18.15 Expert Panel Analysis
 7.3 A suspension imposed as a result of an Expert Panel Report pursuant to 
Article 5.5 (and which is not disputed by the Player and/or their National 
Cricket Federation in accordance with Article 6.9) shall remain in force 
until such time as either (a) the Player undertakes a review of their 
bowling action by a further Expert Panel (the precise terms of which 
shall be determined by the Expert Panel in their sole discretion) which 
concludes that they are able to bowl without using an Illegal Bowling 
Action or (b) the Player, at their or their National Cricket Federation’s 
own cost, submits to a Re-Assessment conducted by an Appointed 
Specialist at an Accredited Testing Centre pursuant to Article 4.5 
and a validated Independent Assessment Report resulting from such 
Re-Assessment determines that they are able to bowl without using 
an Illegal Bowling Action, whereupon the Player shall be permitted to 
resume bowling in International Cricket immediately.
 7.4 If the validated Independent Assessment Report resulting from a 
Re-Assessment conducted pursuant to Article 7.3 above determines that 
the Player uses an Illegal Bowling Action, the suspension imposed shall 
remain in force.
 Event Panel Analysis
 7.5 A suspension imposed as a result of an Event Panel Report pursuant to 
Article 5.7 (and which is not disputed by the Player and/or their National 
Cricket Federation in accordance with Article 6.9) shall remain in force 
until such time as the Player, at their or their National Cricket Federation’s 
cost, submits to a Re-Assessment conducted by an Appointed Specialist 
at an Accredited Testing Centre pursuant to Article 4.5 and a validated 
Independent Assessment Report resulting from such Re-Assessment 
determines that they are able to bowl without using an Illegal Bowling 
Action, whereupon the Player shall be permitted to resume bowling in 
International Cricket immediately.
 7.6 If the validated Independent Assessment Report resulting from a  
Re-Assessment conducted pursuant to Article 7.5 above determines 
that the Player uses an Illegal Bowling Action, the suspension imposed 
shall remain in force.
 8 APPEALS
 8.1 A determination that a Player uses an Illegal Bowling Action as a result  
of a validated Independent Assessment Report following an Independent 
Assessment conducted by an Accredited Testing Centre in accordance 
with the Standard Analysis Protocols shall not be subject to further 
review. As such, a Player and/or their National Cricket Federation shall 
not	be	entitled	to	appeal	the	scientific	basis	for	a	validated	Independent 	
Assessment Report.
 8.2 However, in circumstances where a Player and/or their National Cricket 
Federation contend that the ICC has not followed its own procedures 
under these Illegal Bowling Regulations and such failure has had a 
material effect upon the validated Independent Assessment Report,  
the Player and/or their National Cricket Federation shall be entitled to 
seek a review of the procedural aspects of their case by way of a Notice 
of Appeal to a Judicial Commissioner, in accordance with Article 8.3. Disputing an Expert Panel Report or Event Panel Report
 6.9 Where an Expert Panel Report or an Event Panel Report concludes 
that the Player uses an Illegal Bowling Action, if the Player and/or their 
National Cricket Federation disputes that conclusion, the Player and/
or their National Cricket Federation shall so notify the ICC within 7 days 
of receipt by the Player’s National Cricket Federation of the Expert 
Panel Report or Event Panel Report (as applicable) and notify the ICC 
that consequently the Player shall submit as soon as practicable, at the 
Player’s or the National Cricket Federation’s cost, to an Independent 
Assessment conducted by an Appointed Specialist at an Accredited 
Testing Centre in line with the Standard Analysis Protocols.
 6.10 If the validated Independent Assessment Report resulting from an 
Independent Assessment conducted pursuant to Article 6.9 above 
determines that the Player does not use an Illegal Bowling Action, 
the Player’s suspension from bowling in International Cricket shall be 
immediately lifted and they shall be permitted to resume bowling in 
International Cricket immediately.
 6.11 If the validated Independent Assessment Report resulting from an 
Independent Assessment conducted pursuant to Article 6.9 above 
determines that the Player uses an Illegal Bowling Action, the 
suspension imposed pursuant to Article 6.5 or Article 6.7 (as applicable) 
shall remain in force.
 Second and subsequent reports
 6.12  In the event of a Player being suspended from bowling in International 
Cricket under these Illegal Bowling Regulations for a second time within 
a	period	of	2	years	from	the	date	of	the	commencement	of	the	first	
period of suspension, the Player shall be automatically suspended from 
bowling in International Cricket for a minimum period of 1 year.
  In the event of a Player being suspended from bowling in International 
Cricket under these Illegal Bowling Regulations for a third time, the 
Player shall be automatically suspended from bowling in International 
Cricket for a minimum period of 2 years.
 7 LIFTING OF SUSPENSION
 Independent Assessment
 7.1 A suspension imposed as a result of an Independent Assessment 
pursuant to Article 4.1 or Article 4.5 shall remain in place until such time 
as the Player has submitted to a Re-Assessment in accordance with 
the provisions set out in Article 4.5 and, in a validated Independent 
Assessment Report resulting from such Re-Assessment, it is determined 
that the Player is able to bowl without using an Illegal Bowling Action, 
whereupon the Player shall be permitted to resume bowling in 
International Cricket immediately.
 7.2 Only after the expiry of the 1 year period of suspension imposed 
pursuant to Article 6.12 shall a Player be permitted to apply to the  
ICC for a Re-Assessment in accordance with Article 4.5.ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.16 18.17 9 COSTS
 Independent Assessment
 9.1 The ICC shall be responsible for the costs incurred by the Player  
in attending an initial Independent Assessment. 
 Re-Assessments
 9.2 The Player and/or the Player’s National Cricket Federation shall be 
responsible for the costs incurred by the Player in attending any  
Re-Assessments carried out pursuant to Article 4.5.
 Independent Assessments Subsequent to Expert Panel Report  
or Event Panel Report
 9.3 Where a validated Independent Assessment Report pursuant to Article 
6.9 determines that a Player suspended as a result of an Expert Panel 
Report or Event Panel Report does not use an Illegal Bowling Action, 
the costs of such Independent Assessment incurred by the Player and/
or their National Cricket Federation, including the costs incurred by the 
Player to attend, shall be reimbursed by the ICC to the Player’s National 
Cricket Federation upon production of valid receipts.
 Appeals
 9.4 The ICC shall be responsible for the costs incurred by the Player  
in attending any hearing before a Judicial Commissioner. 
 9.5 The costs incurred by the Player and/or their National Cricket Federation 
for any representation at such a hearing before a Judicial Commissioner 
shall be borne by the Player and/or their National Cricket Federation.
 10 NATIONAL CRICKET FEDERATION POLICY
 10.1 All National Cricket Federations shall formulate and implement a policy 
and strategy in the form of procedures to deal with players with suspected 
Illegal Bowling Actions in their domestic cricket. It is the responsibility of 
National Cricket Federations to ensure that bowlers with suspected Illegal 
Bowling Actions are closely monitored and scrutinised before being picked 
to represent the National Cricket Federation in International Cricket.
 10.2 Where a National Cricket Federation’s procedures for dealing with players 
with suspected Illegal Bowling Actions involve the assessment of such 
players’ actions conducted at an Accredited Testing Centre using the 
Standard Analysis Protocols and conducted pursuant to these Illegal 
Bowling Regulations, the National Cricket Federation shall ensure that 
the results of such assessments are interpreted in the same way as if the 
assessment was conducted pursuant to these Illegal Bowling Regulations. 
 10.3 A National Cricket Federation may provide the ICC with the full report 
from any such assessments undertaken and, upon receipt of such 
information, the ICC shall maintain appropriate records. However, whilst 
the ICC may choose to communicate such information to Umpires and 
Match Referees where it considers this relevant and appropriate, it shall 
be under no obligation to do so. Further, the results of any assessments 
conducted by a National Cricket Federation shall not preclude any Player 
in International Cricket from either being called by an Umpire under the 
provisions of Law 24.2 of the Laws of Cricket or being reported for a 
suspected Illegal Bowling Action under these Illegal Bowling Regulations. 8.3 A Player and/or their National Cricket Federation seeking a review of 
their case shall lodge written notice thereof with the ICC’s General 
Counsel	(with	a	copy	to	the	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket)	within	
7 days of receipt by the Player’s National Cricket Federation of the 
validated Independent Assessment Report (the “ Notice of Appeal”). 
The Notice of Appeal shall include a written statement setting out, in 
detail, the grounds for the review of the suspension, together with any 
documents that the Player wishes to rely on in support of such review.
 8.4 Upon receipt of a Notice of Appeal, the ICC’s General Counsel shall, as 
soon as reasonably practicable, appoint one member of the ICC’s Code of 
Conduct Commission, who shall be from a country other than that of the 
Player, to act as the Judicial Commissioner and hear the case, sitting alone.
 8.5 The procedure for the review (including whether to convene a hearing 
or, alternatively, to determine the matter, or any part thereof, by way 
of written submissions alone) shall be at the discretion of the Judicial 
Commissioner, provided that the review is conducted in a manner that 
affords the Player a fair and reasonable opportunity to present evidence 
(including the right to call and question witnesses by telephone or 
video-conference where necessary), address the Judicial Commissioner 
and present their case. The Player shall be entitled to a representative 
during the review process, who shall be entitled to attend any hearing.
 8.6 In circumstances where the Judicial Commissioner determines that 
a hearing should be held, the Player shall, where possible, attend 
the hearing. The ICC shall be responsible for making the necessary 
arrangements for the hearing and shall ensure that the Player, through 
the Player’s National Cricket Federation, is given reasonable notice 
of the relevant arrangements. If the Player has received notice of the 
hearing and fails to attend, the hearing may, at the sole discretion of the 
Judicial Commissioner, proceed in the absence of the Player.
 8.7 The Judicial Commissioner may, at any time during the process and at 
their sole discretion, seek expert advice, at the ICC’s cost, from a human 
movement specialist (who may be a member of the ICC Panel of Human 
Movement Specialists), to assist them in their deliberations.
 8.8 The Judicial Commissioner shall decide whether or not the review of the 
Player and/or their National Cricket Federation to the procedure should be 
upheld and, if so, what the consequences, if any, are of that decision. These 
may include, without limitation, upholding the Player’s review and, where 
the Judicial Commissioner considers that such procedural defect is of such 
a serious nature that it materially affected the outcome of the Independent 
Assessment (and consequently, that the validated Independent 
Assessment Report cannot be considered reliable), amending the results 
of the Independent Assessment. The Judicial Commissioner shall, in each 
case, set out the reasons why the decision has been reached, including a 
summary of the evidence on which the decision was based.
 8.9 The ICC shall communicate the decision of the Judicial Commissioner in 
writing to the Player, through their National Cricket Federation, within 
48 hours of its receipt of the Judicial Commissioner’s decision.
 8.10 Subject to the right of the Player to apply to the ICC for a Re-Assessment 
in accordance with Article 4.5, the decision of the Judicial Commissioner 
shall	be	final	and	binding.ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.18 18.19 13 AMENDMENT AND INTERPRETATION OF THE  
ILLEGAL BOWLING REGULATIONS
 13.1 The Illegal Bowling Regulations may be amended from time to time  
by the Executive Board of the ICC, with such amendments coming  
into	effect	on	the	date	specified	by	the	ICC.
 13.2 The headings used for the various Articles of these Illegal Bowling 
Regulations are for the purpose of guidance only and shall not be deemed 
to be part of the substance of these Illegal Bowling Regulations or to inform 
or affect in any way the language of the provisions to which they refer.
 13.3 The Illegal Bowling Regulations shall come into full force and effect  
on 30 September 2018 (the “Effective Date”). They shall not apply 
retrospectively to Matches commencing prior to the Effective Date; 
provided,	however,	that	any	Match	Officials’	Report	pending	as	of	the	
Effective Date shall be governed by the predecessor version of these 
Illegal Bowling Regulations in force at the time of the alleged offence, 
subject to any application of the principle of lex mitior.
 13.4 If any Article or provision of these Illegal Bowling Regulations is held 
invalid, unenforceable or illegal for any reason, these Illegal Bowling 
Regulations shall remain otherwise in full force apart from such Article 
or provision which shall be deemed deleted insofar as it is invalid, 
unenforceable or illegal.
 13.5 These Illegal Bowling Regulations are governed by and shall be construed 
in accordance with English law. Strictly without prejudice to a Player’s 
submission to the jurisdiction of a Judicial Commissioner under Article 
1.1.2, disputes relating to these Illegal Bowling Regulations shall be subject 
to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts. 11 RECOGNITION OF DECISIONS
 11.1 A suspension from bowling in International Cricket imposed on a Player 
under these Illegal Bowling Regulations shall be respected and enforced 
by all National Cricket Federations in respect of domestic cricket 
under their jurisdiction automatically upon receipt of notice of the 
same, without the need for any further formality. All National Cricket 
Federations shall take all steps legally available to them to enforce and 
give effect to such decisions.
 11.2 Upon a suspension from bowling in International Cricket being lifted, 
whether as a result of a validated Independent Assessment Report or an 
Expert Panel Report, a Player shall be permitted to bowl in all domestic 
cricket under the auspices of all National Cricket Federations without 
the need for any further formality.
 11.3 In circumstances where a National Cricket Federation suspends a player 
from bowling in domestic cricket under its own rules, where such 
suspension is imposed on the basis of an analysis of the respective player 
conducted by an Accredited Testing Centre and in accordance with 
the Standard Analysis Protocols, such suspension shall be respected 
and enforced by the ICC in International Cricket and all National Cricket 
Federations in respect of domestic cricket under their jurisdiction 
automatically upon receipt of notice of the same, without the need for any 
further formality. The ICC and National Cricket Federations shall take all 
steps legally available to them to enforce and give effect to such decisions.
 11.4 Where a player has been suspended pursuant to Article 11.3, the player 
may submit at any time to a further analysis of their bowling action 
arranged by the same National Cricket Federation and conducted at an 
Accredited Testing Centre in accordance with the Standard Analysis 
Protocols. Where such further analysis determines that they are able 
to bowl without using an Illegal Bowling Action, the player shall be 
permitted to bowl by the ICC in International Cricket and by all National 
Cricket Federations in their own domestic cricket without the need for 
any further formality.
 11.5 Notwithstanding the foregoing, where a Player has been suspended 
from bowling pursuant to either Articles 11.1 or 11.3 above, their National 
Cricket Federation may (but shall be under no obligation to) permit the 
Player to continue to bowl in their own domestic competitions.
 11.6 Notwithstanding the recognition by the ICC of suspensions of Players 
under Article 11.3, only suspensions resulting from International Cricket 
shall be relevant for the purposes of Article 6.12 (automatic suspension 
for a minimum 1 year period resulting from a second suspension within  
a 2 year period).
 12 DATABASE
 12.1 The ICC shall be responsible for maintaining records in which the names 
of all Players reported under these Illegal Bowling Regulations and 
the details and status of all Independent Assessments, Expert Panel 
Analyses and Event Panel Analyses are recorded.
 12.2 The ICC shall also maintain information on assessments conducted by 
National	Cricket	Federations	and	notified	to	the	ICC	pursuant	to	Article	
10.3 of these Illegal Bowling Regulations.ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.20 18.219 The data collection and camera system shall be standardised by ICC-supplied 
calibration tools used in accordance with the instructions of the ICC Panel of 
Human Movement Specialists.
10 Standardised software packages provided by the ICC shall be used by the 
Testing Team to analyse the data from the Independent Assessment and 
produce the Independent Assessment Report.
Preparation for Independent Assessments
11 Prior to the Independent Assessment, the ICC shall provide the Appointed 
Specialist with video footage of the Player’s bowling action from the match 
in	which	the	relevant	Match	Officials’	Report	was	submitted	and/or	other	
relevant video footage of the Player’s bowling action. This video footage shall 
be used by the Testing Team to compare the Player’s match bowling action 
with the Player’s bowling action during the Independent Assessment.
12 The Testing Team may, at the sole discretion of the Appointed Specialist, include 
a	relevant	cricketing	expert	(normally	a	first-class	umpire,	former	player	or 	
specialist coach) to help the Testing Team to determine if the Player is accurately 
reproducing their match bowling action during the Independent Assessment.
13 Prior to the Independent Assessment the Testing Team shall provide 
the Player with an explanation of the requirements for the Independent 
Assessment under these Standard Analysis Protocols, including the deliveries 
that the Player shall be required to bowl in accordance with paragraphs 26-29.
14 The Testing Team, prior to the Independent Assessment, shall:
 a) record the Player’s age, injury status, bowling arm and bowling 
style	(Standard	Delivery	Type	and	any	Specific	Variations)	on	the	
Independent Assessment Report;
 b) measure the Player’s height and weight and record this information on 
the Independent Assessment Report; and
 c) assess the Player for joint hypermobility using the Beighton scale.
15 Prior to the Independent Assessment, the Testing Team shall give the Player 
the opportunity to present to the Appointed Specialist any medical and/or 
scientific	information	relevant	to	the	Independent	Assessment.
16 The Player may, at the cost of the Player and/or their National Cricket Federation, 
be accompanied to the Independent Assessment by an individual approved in 
advance by the ICC. Such person may include a chaperone, the Player’s coach or 
a member of the Player’s National Cricket Federation support staff. This individual 
shall be permitted to observe the Independent Assessment but cannot (unless 
invited by the Testing Team) be involved or interfere in any aspect of it.
Calibration and warm-up
17 Male Players shall undertake the Independent Assessment with a bare torso; 
female Players shall wear appropriate clothing as agreed with the Testing 
Team. The Testing Team may require shaving of some areas of the Player’s skin 
for the purpose of securely attaching the marker set.
18 The Testing Team shall:
 a) place the marker set on the Player’s bowling arm and torso;
 b) take photographs of the placement of the market set; and
 c) perform a series of shoulder and arm movements (system calibration) 
before and after the Player has bowled deliveries during their warm-up.ANNEXURE 1
ICC STANDARDISED PROTOCOLS FOR THE  
ASSESSMENT OF SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING 
ACTIONS (THE “STANDARD ANALYSIS PROTOCOLS”)
Conduct of Independent Assessments
1 The ICC shall appoint an individual from the ICC Panel of Human Movement 
Specialists (the “Appointed Specialist”) to oversee the conduct of 
Independent Assessments in accordance with the Illegal Bowling Regulations.
2 All members of the ICC Panel of Human Movement Specialists shall have the 
necessary	qualifications,	equipment	and	access	to	Accredited	Testing	Centres	
in order to conduct Independent Assessments in accordance with these 
Standard Analysis Protocols.
3 As of the Effective Date, the ICC Panel of Human Movement Specialists 
consists of the following individuals:
 • Dr Mian Muhammad Awais;
 • Dr Andrea Cutti;
 • Mr. Gnanavel M.B.;
 • Mr. Sai Aditya;
 • Dr Luke Kelly;
 • Dr Mark King; and
 • Dr Helen Bayne.
4	 Additional	appropriately	qualified	human	movement	specialists	may	be	
appointed to the ICC Panel of Human Movement Specialists by the ICC  
from time to time.
5 Independent Assessments shall be conducted at Accredited Testing Centres 
by a Testing Team which shall be led by the Appointed Specialist.
6 As of the Effective Date, the Accredited Testing Centres comprise the 
following institutions:
 • Lahore University of Management Sciences, Lahore, Pakistan;
 • Loughborough University, Leicestershire, UK;
 • Sri Ramachandra University, Chennai, India;
 • The National Cricket Centre, Brisbane, Australia; and
	 •	 The	University	of	Pretoria,	Hatfield,	South	Africa.
7 Additional appropriately equipped institutions may be accredited by the ICC 
as Accredited Testing Centres from time to time.
Equipment for Independent Assessments
8 Accredited Testing Centres shall be equipped with high speed video cameras, 
a 3D motion analysis system, a standardised kit of markers and calibration tools 
and	any	other	facilities	and	equipment	notified	to	the	ICC	by	the	ICC	Panel	of 	
Human Movement Specialists from time to time.ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.22 18.2330 The Player shall, for the purposes of enabling the Testing Team to make the 
judgement required under paragraph 32(b) (wide delivery), verbally notify the 
Testing Team at the commencement of the Independent Assessment as to 
whether they wish their deliveries to be assessed as being delivered to a right 
or left-handed batsman. The Player may inform the Testing Team at any stage 
of	the	Independent	Assessment	if	they	wish	to	change	this	earlier	notification.	
In	the	absence	of	any	such	notification,	the	Independent	Assessment	shall	be	
conducted on the basis of a right-handed batsman.
31 The Player may at any time during the Independent Assessment request 
a break and/or refreshments, which the Testing Team shall accommodate 
wherever reasonable.
32 The Testing Team shall require the Player to repeat any of the following deliveries, 
which consequently shall not comprise part of the Independent Assessment:
 a) any delivery which would be deemed a no ball under Law 24.5 (the feet) 
or Law 24.6 (breaking wicket in delivering ball) of the Laws of Cricket;
 b) any delivery which would be deemed a wide under Law 25 of the Laws 
of Cricket; or
 c) any delivery which, allowing for a small margin of error on the part of 
the Player in terms of length, does not correspond to the length of 
delivery	specified	by	the	Testing	Team	accordance	with	paragraph	28.
33 The Testing Team shall have complete discretion in judging (in respect of both 
the	Player’s	Standard	Delivery	Type	and	all	applicable	Specific	Variations):
 a) whether the Player has accurately complied with the requirements 
of the Independent Assessment (including but not limited to the 
replication of their match bowling action, length of run-up, position on 
the crease, and pace of delivery); and
 b) whether any deliveries are required to be repeated under paragraph  
32 above in order for the Independent Assessment to be completed by 
the Player.
Independent Assessment Reports
34 The Independent Assessment Report shall be presented to the ICC (in the form 
prescribed by the ICC as set out at Appendix A) as soon as reasonably possible 
after the Independent Assessment and, unless exceptional circumstances exist, 
no later than 10 days from the date of the Independent Assessment.
35 The Independent Assessment Report shall also include:
 a) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of the Appointed Specialist, the 
Player accurately replicated their match bowling action in the Independent 
Assessment	(including	in	respect	of	any	Specific	Variations);	and
 b) a completed Player Attendance Form. 
Validation
36 Immediately upon receipt of the Independent Assessment Report, the ICC 
shall send the Independent Assessment Report to at least one member of the 
ICC Panel of Human Movement Specialists (who shall not have had any prior 
involvement with the Player’s case) for review and validation in accordance 
with Article 5.3 of the Illegal Bowling Regulations.19 The process described in paragraph 18 above shall be repeated until the 
Testing	Team	is	satisfied	that	the	testing	equipment	is	adequately	calibrated.
20 The Testing Team shall provide the Player with the opportunity to conduct 
their normal pre-bowling warm-up routine, which shall comprise as many 
deliveries and shall be of such duration as the Player may require.
21 The Testing Team shall indicate clearly to the Player when the calibration process 
is complete and shall establish from the Player when their warm-up is complete 
and when the Player is ready to commence the Independent Assessment.
Procedure for Independent Assessments
22 The Independent Assessment shall be completed in one day.
23 Wherever possible, the Independent Assessment shall be conducted indoors 
on a full-length cricket pitch and with a full run-up available to the Player.
24 The Testing Team shall provide the ball to be used during the Independent 
Assessment, which may be new or used and shall be of the approved standard 
under the Standard Playing Conditions for Test, One Day International or 
Twenty20 International Cricket (in respect of male Players) or Women’s Test 
Match Playing Conditions, ICC Women’s Championship Playing Conditions or 
Women’s Twenty20 Playing Conditions (in respect of female Players).
25 The Player shall be required to replicate their match bowling action (including 
full length run-up), position on the crease, and pace of delivery in bowling the 
mode	and	quantity	of	deliveries	specified	by	the	Testing	Team	in	accordance	
with paragraphs 26-29 below (as applicable). 
26 The Player shall be required to bowl a minimum of 18 and a maximum of 36 
deliveries during the Independent Assessment. The Testing Team shall in their 
sole discretion determine the number of deliveries to be bowled using the 
Player’s	Standard	Delivery	Type	and	any	Specific	Variations.	
27 A minimum of 6 deliveries of any mode of delivery that has been mentioned on 
a	Match	Officials’	Report	(Standard	Delivery	Type	or	Specific	Variation)	shall	be 	
required to be bowled by the Player during the Independent Assessment.
28 Where the Player’s Standard Delivery Type is that of a fast/medium pace 
bowler, the deliveries to be bowled using their Standard Delivery Type shall, 
unless the Testing Team determines otherwise, be equally divided between 
deliveries of the following lengths (subject to a small margin of error at the 
Testing Team’s discretion in accordance with paragraph 32(c)):
 a) good length;
 b) yorker length; and
 c) bouncer length.
29 Where the Player’s Standard Delivery Type is that of a spin bowler, the 
deliveries to be bowled using their Standard Delivery Type shall, unless the 
Testing Team determines otherwise, be good length deliveries (subject to 
a small margin of error at the Testing Team’s discretion in accordance with 
paragraph 32(c)).ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.24 18.25APPENDIX 1
INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT REPORT TEMPLATE
SECTION 1 – MATCH OFFICIALS’ REPORT
Player Name:
National Cricket Federation:
Date of Match:
Match	covered	by	Match	Officials’	Report:
(Location, opposition and series/tournament)
Standard Delivery Type:
Specific	Variations	(if	any):	
(include all relevant information on such  
variation deliveries)
Any other relevant information:
SECTION 2 – INFORMATION PROVIDED BY ICC
2.1 Video Footage
Side-on 
(yes/no)Behind
(yes/no)Front-on
(yes/no)Other
(specify)Fastest  
delivery speed  
(TV broadcast data)
Video footage available 
of Player bowling in 
match covered by 
Match	Officials’	Report?
Video footage available 
of Player bowling in a 
match other than that 
covered by the Match 
Officials’	Report?
(provide details of match) 
Other Match
(Date, opposition and 
series/tournament)Determination
37 Article 2.1 of the Illegal Bowling Regulations references the degree of Elbow 
Extension that constitutes an Illegal Bowling Action. Where the validated 
Independent Assessment Report records the degree of Elbow Extension on 
any delivery of the Player’s Standard Delivery Type to be in excess of the 
level	specified	in	Article	2.1,	the	Player	shall	therefore	be	determined	to	have	
used an Illegal Bowling Action. Where the validated Independent Assessment 
Report	records	the	degree	of	Elbow	Extension	on	any	delivery	of	a	Specific	
Variation	to	be	in	excess	of	the	level	specified	in	Article	2.1,	the	Player	shall	
therefore be determined to have used an Illegal Bowling Action in respect of 
that	Specific	Variation.
38 Accordingly, in order for a Player to be determined to have used a legal 
bowling action (in respect of both their Standard Delivery Type and any 
applicable	Specific	Variations),	the	degree	of	Elbow	Extension	recorded	
for every delivery from each mode of delivery during the Independent 
Assessment	must	be	within	the	level	specified	in	Article	2.1	of	the	Illegal	
Bowling Regulations.ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.26 18.273.3 Accredited Testing Centre Information
Assessment Set-Up: See Figure 3
Motion Capture System: [Insert details of the motion capture system  
specification;	2D	and	3D]
High Speed Camera information: [Insert details of position of the high-speed 2D cameras; 
method	of	synchronisation]
Any other relevant information regarding 
equipment used by the Assessment Team:
3.4  Preparation for Independent Assessment
Cluster sizes Acromion (ACR) [small/medium/large/custom]
Humerus Proximal (HP) [small/medium/large/custom]
Humerus Distal (HD) [small/medium/large/custom]
Forearm [small/medium/large/custom]
Marker placement on bowling arm See Figure 4 
Player warm-up [e.g. Following calibration, the Player undertook  
their own pre-bowling warm-up routine including  
approximately	X	warm-up	deliveries]
3.5  Conduct of Independent Assessment
Number of deliveries of Player’s 
Standard Delivery Type bowled during 
Independent Assessment:
Number	of	deliveries	of	Player’s	Specific	
Variations (specify each such applicable 
Specific	Variation	by	name):
Number of discarded deliveries during 
Independent Assessment and, where 
applicable, reason for discarding and 
steps taken to address:
(e.g. marker falling off; equipment failure; 
lack of replication of Match bowling action)
Any other relevant information  
regarding the conduct of the 
Independent Assessment:SECTION 3 – INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT
3.1  Details
Player Name:
Date of Independent Assessment:
Accredited Testing Centre:
Appointed Specialist:
Members of Testing Team: [list	all	names]
Other individuals in attendance: [list	all	names	and	reason	for	attendance]
3.2  Player Information
Date of birth:
Current age:
Height (cm):
Weight (kg):
Any current upper limb or other injury that 
would preclude the Player from using the 
bowling action used in match conditions:Yes/ No
[If	‘yes’,	please	describe]
Any other relevant  
anthropometric information:
Bowling side upper limb injury history 
and/or anatomical abnormalities:Shoulder Girdle: 
Shoulder Joint:
Arm:
Elbow:
Forearm:
Wrist:
Hand:
Hypermobility Characteristic: Left Right
5th MCP joint extension past 90°
Thumb to touch to forearm 
Elbow hyperextension past 10°
Knee hyperextension past 10°
Palms	to	floor	(straight	legs)
Beighton Hypermobility Scale Score: [X/9]ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.28 18.29SECTION 5 – ADDITIONAL SUPPORTING INFORMATION
Table 1 – Presentation of Results
Ball Mode of 
delivery
Standard  
Delivery Type or 
Specific	Variation 	
(specify)Length of 
delivery
Good  
Yorker  
 Bouncer  
(specify)Elbow Flexion Angle (Degrees) Elbow 
Extension
Upper 
Arm  
HorizontalMaximum Minimum Ball 
Release
1
2
3
n
Av.
Commentary: SECTION 4 – RESULTS
4.1 Results of Independent Assessment
 The degree of Elbow Extension used by the Player in delivering the ball during the 
Independent Assessment and measured using the Standard Analysis Protocols is 
set out at Table 1.
 Still images comparing the Player’s Match bowling action with that used in 
the Independent Assessment are set out in Figure 2.
	 Graphs	showing	the	degree	of	elbow	flexion	from	upper-arm-horizontal	
(0%) to ball release (100%) for certain deliveries during the Independent 
Assessment are set out in Figure 1. 
	 The	Testing	Team	[were/were	not]	satisfied	that	the	Player	replicated	their	
match bowling action (including full length run-up, position on the crease, 
and pace of delivery) during the Independent Assessment.
	 The	Player’s	Elbow	Extension	for	their	[Standard	Delivery	Type/Specific	
Variation	Delivery	(specify)]	[did	not	exceed	15	degrees/exceeded	15	degrees]	
as set out in the Illegal Bowling Regulations.
 Signature:  .........................................................................................................................................................................
 Name: .....................................................................................................................................................................................
 Role: Appointed Specialist
 Date:  .......................................................................................................................................................................................
4.2  Validation
 This Independent Assessment Report is deemed valid following a review of 
all relevant data and information as provided by the Appointed Specialist. The 
review indicated that the Independent Assessment was carried out correctly 
using the Standard Analysis Protocols under the Illegal Bowling Regulations.
 Signature:  .........................................................................................................................................................................
 Name: .....................................................................................................................................................................................
 Role: Member of ICC Panel of Human Movement Specialists
 Date:  .......................................................................................................................................................................................ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.30 18.31Figure 2: Comparison of Match bowling action against the bowling action  
used in the Independent Assessment 
[insert	comparative	still	images	–	multiple	figures	can	be	used	to	show	comparison	from	various	camera	angles]FIGURES
Figure 1: Graphs showing Elbow Extension (from upper-arm-horizontal (0%)  
to ball release (100%) for certain deliveries)ICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONSICC REGULATIONS FOR THE REVIEW OF BOWLERS  
REPORTED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL BOWLING ACTIONS 18 18
18.32 18.33Figure 4: Marker placement on bowling arm Figure 3: Accredited Testing Centre and camera set-up19.1 A PREFACE
 1 The objectives which ICC seeks to achieve through these Regulations are:
 a) To ensure a consistent approach and to treat all Member Boards equally;
 b) To ensure professional and appropriate standards of appearance of 
players	and	team	officials;
 c) To protect the sponsorship rights of ICC and its Member Boards 
(including from ambush marketing);
 d) To allow an opportunity for players to obtain some revenue from 
controlled bat advertising;
 e) To prohibit advertising connected with betting and/or gaming.
 2 These Regulations are effective as from August 2019 and should be 
read in conjunction with Appendix 1, which sets out in diagrammatic 
form what marks and logos are permitted in what size and positions 
on particular items of cricket clothing and equipment in all formats of 
the game, and Appendix 2, which sets out the disciplinary process for 
breaches of these Regulations. 
 B DEFINITIONS
 1 Betting Logo	–	a	Logo	which	is	either	perceived,	or	likely	to	be	
perceived, by spectators and viewers, as being associated or connected 
in some way with betting, gaming or gambling of any kind.
 2 Charity Logo –	an	ICC	Approved	Logo	of	an	officially	registered	charity	
of a Member Board’s choice.
 3 Commercial Logo	–	an	ICC	Approved	Logo	of	an	entity	which	is	the	
sponsor of a series, event, team or player.
 4 Cricket Clothing	–	shirts,	T-shirts,	skins,	trousers,	sweaters,	caps,	hats,	
helmets, wristbands, headbands, sunglasses or other headgear.
 5 Cricket Equipment –	stumps,	bats,	pads,	boots,	shoes,	gloves	 
(batting or wicket-keeping), thigh pads, arm guards and other visible 
protective equipment.
 6 Event Logo	–	an	ICC	Approved	Logo	of	an	international	cricket	event,	
which may include (but not consist solely of) a Commercial Logo of the 
sponsors of the event.
 7 Excluded Events	–	unless	otherwise	advised	by	ICC,	in	advance	of	an	
event, Excluded Event means: ICC Cricket World Cup, ICC Under 19 
Cricket	World	Cup,	ICC	Cricket	World	Cup	Qualifier	(or	replacements	for	
any	of	the	same),	ICC	World	Twenty/20,	ICC	World	Twenty/20	Qualifier,	
ICC Women’s World Cup and the ICC Women’s World Twenty/20.
 8 ICC Approved	–	in	relation	to	any	Logo,	means	approved	by	ICC 	 
(or	by	ICC	Development	(International)	Limited	(‘IDI’)	as	ICC	may 	 
decide) in accordance with the procedure set out in Section L below,  
as qualifying as a Manufacturer’s Logo, a Commercial Logo, an Event 
Logo, a National Logo or a Player’s Bat Logo (as the case may be) and 
as not being a Betting Logo and as being otherwise in accordance with 
these Regulations.
  
CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT  
RULES AND REGULATIONS
 19
CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT  
RULES AND REGULATIONS
CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.2 19.3	 	 An	entity	not	otherwise	within	this	definition	shall	not	qualify	as	a	
Manufacturer by reason of its being associated in business with, or a 
company in the same group of companies as a Manufacturer.
  No entity shall qualify as a Manufacturer of any item of Cricket Clothing 
or Cricket Equipment by virtue of its involvement in the manufacture 
of Cricket Clothing or Cricket Equipment of any other type. In particular 
(but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing), no entity 
shall qualify as a Manufacturer of bats by reason of its manufacture of 
any other item of Cricket Equipment or Cricket Clothing.
	 	 An	entity	which	as	of	October	2001	qualified	as	a	‘Manufacturer’	
under the previous edition of these Regulations but which would 
not otherwise qualify as a Manufacturer hereunder shall be deemed 
to continue to qualify as a Manufacturer provided the Logo of any 
such entity shall not thereby qualify as a Manufacturer’s Logo if it is 
a Betting Logo.
 19 Manufacturer’s Logo	–	an	ICC	Approved	Logo	of	the	Manufacturer	 
of the item of Cricket Equipment or Cricket Clothing in question 
excluding, however:
 a) any Logo which (notwithstanding some connection with a 
Manufacturer) is also (either at the time of its adoption or 
subsequently) a Logo of, confusingly similar to or which suggests a 
connection with any entity which is not a Manufacturer; and
 b) any Betting Logo.
  provided, however, that ICC may (in its sole discretion) approve 
as a Manufacturer’s Logo, a Logo of an entity which, although not 
already a Manufacturer, is nevertheless a manufacturer of sports 
clothing and/or sports equipment other than Cricket Clothing and 
Cricket Equipment. 
  For the purpose of these Regulations (including Appendices 1 and 2), all 
Manufacturer’s	Logos	shall	fall	into	one	of	the	following	five	categories:
  • Design Feature	–	means	any	design	feature	of	a	Manufacturer	
which is distinctive to that Manufacturer and is used for the 
purposes	of	brand	identification	and/or	cosmetic	appeal	but	
which	does	not	contain	any	Manufacturer’s	Identification.
  •  Identification	Strip	–	a	tone	on	tone	or	contrasting	strip	
containing	a	Manufacturer’s	Identification	once	or	repeatedly.	
  •  Manufacturer’s	Identification	–	means	any	express	form	of 	
Manufacturer	identification,	including	but	not	limited	to	a 	
Manufacturer’s name, model name, internet domain name, emblem, 
logo and/or trademark, but shall not include any Design Feature.
  •  Official	Product	–	means	the	label	which	identifies	an	item	as	an	
official	product	of	the	Manufacturer.	
  •  Quality Feature	–	means	the	label	of	the	Manufacturer	which	
promotes a quality feature used by the Manufacturer. 
 20 National Logo	–	an	ICC	Approved	Logo	of	a	country	or	its	ICC	Member	Board.
 21 Non-Commercial Logo	–	an	ICC	Approved	Personal	Message,	visible	tattoo 	
or other Logo, which is not a Manufacturer’s Logo, Commercial Logo, 
Player’s Bat Logo, Betting Logo, Event Logo, Charity Logo or National Logo.  9 ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer	–	means	the	person	appointed	by	the	ICC 	
from time to time to act as the ICC’s Chief Executive (or his/her designee).
 10 ICC’s Cricket Operations Department	–	means	the	department	within	 
the ICC designated as such and which is comprised of, amongst others, 
the	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	and	the	ICC’s	Senior	Cricket	
Operations Manager.
 11 ICC Events	–	means	each	of	the	following:	(a)	the	ICC	Cricket	World 	
Cup; (b) the ICC World Twenty20; (c) the ICC World Cricket League 
Championship and World Cricket League Division 2; (d) the ICC Women’s 
Cricket World Cup; (e) the ICC Under 19 Cricket World Cup; (f) the 
ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifying Tournament; (g) the ICC Women’s 
Cricket World Cup Qualifying Tournament; (h) the ICC World Twenty20 
Qualifying Tournament; (i) the ICC Under 19 Cricket World Cup Qualifying 
Tournament; (j) the ICC Intercontinental Cup; (k) any match or event 
organised or sanctioned by the ICC from time to time which is televised 
and/or streamed live on the Internet; and (l) any match or event organised 
or sanctioned by the ICC from time which the ICC deems it appropriate 
that these Regulations should apply. 
 12 ICC’s General Counsel	–	means	the	person	appointed	by	the	ICC	from	
time to time to act as the ICC’s General Counsel (or his/her designee).
 13 ICC’s General Manager	–	Cricket	–	means	the	person	appointed	by	the	 
ICC	from	time	to	time	to	act	as	the	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	  
(or his/her designee).
 14 ICC’s Senior Cricket Operations Manager	–	means	the	person	appointed 	
by the ICC from time to time to act as the ICC’s Senior Cricket Operations 
Manager (or his/her designee).
 15 International Match	–	means	each	of	the	following	(in	men’s	and 	
women’s cricket): (a) any Test Match, One Day International Match or 
Twenty20 International Match; (b) any match played as part of an ICC 
Event; (c) any International Tour Match; or (d) any other Match organised 
or sanctioned by the ICC from time to time to which the ICC deems it 
appropriate that these Regulations should apply.
 16 International Tour Match	–	means	any	match	played	between	a 	
representative	team	of	a	Full	Member	(or	an	Associate	or	Affiliate	Member 	
with ODI or T20I status) and any domestic, guest or invitational team.
 17 Logo	–	means	any	form	of	identification	or	branding	including	(without	
limitation) any corporate name, business name, internet domain name, 
title,	flag,	emblem,	crest,	mascot	or	trade	mark	(whether	registered	or	
not and including any symbol, device or colour(s) which functions or is 
intended to function as a trade mark).  
 18 Manufacturer	–	in	relation	to	any	item	of	Cricket	Clothing	or	Cricket	
Equipment,	‘Manufacturer’	shall	mean	any	entity	carrying	on	the	
business of both:
 a) manufacturing or procuring the manufacture of the Cricket 
Equipment or the Cricket Clothing of the type in question; and
 b) supplying it from readily available stock for sale throughout outlets 
of several kinds to members of the public in a country which is a 
Member of ICC, with the aid of published price lists and catalogues, 
and	with	profit	directly	from	the	sale	of	such	Cricket	Clothing	or	
Cricket Equipment as its main aim.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.4 19.5 D GENERAL PROHIBITIONS
 1 Any clothing or equipment that does not comply with these Regulations 
is strictly prohibited. In particular, no Logo shall be permitted to be 
displayed on Cricket Clothing or Cricket Equipment, other than a 
National Logo, a Commercial Logo, an Event Logo, a Manufacturer’s 
Logo, a Player’s Bat Logo, a Charity Logo or a Non-Commercial Logo 
as	provided	in	these	Regulations.	In	addition,	where	any	Match	Official	
becomes aware of any clothing or equipment that does not comply 
with these Regulations, he shall be authorised to prevent the offending 
person	from	taking	the	field	of	play	(or	to	order	them	from	the	field	of	
play, if appropriate) until the non-compliant clothing or equipment is 
removed or appropriately covered up. 
 2 It shall also be prohibited under these Regulations for any individual 
to wear any clothing or use any equipment that has been changed, 
altered or transformed (whether to comply with these Regulations 
or	otherwise)	in	any	way	that,	in	the	opinion	of	any	Match	Official,	
undermines the professional standards that are required of all elite 
players. For example, and without limitation, it shall be prohibited 
to cover up or alter the appearance of clothing and equipment with 
sticking plaster or marker pens and/or to wear batting pads painted 
with	a	coloured	paint	that	has	faded	or	is	flaking	off.	
 3 For the avoidance of doubt, there shall be no requirement that a 
Match	Official	must	first	provide	a	warning	to	the	offending	individual	
to remove or cover up a prohibited logo before a breach of these 
Regulations can be established. 
 E CONTRASTING COLOURED KIT FOR HOME AND AWAY MATCHES
 1 For teams participating in a televised bi-lateral ODI or T20I, it is 
necessary	to	be	able	to	distinguish	between	the	teams	on	the	field	of	
play. Teams are therefore required to wear contrasting coloured kit.
 2 To be determined in advance of a series, the home team has preference 
in the choice of colour. The participating teams should agree in the 
respective MOU the colour of the kit the visiting team will wear if there 
is a clash of colour.
 3 For televised ICC events all participating teams will be required to provide 
for two different coloured kits, except for the host country who has 
preference in the choice of colour and may, if it chooses to do so, provide 
only one coloured kit to be worn in all matches throughout the event.  
In	advance	of	the	event	the	teams	will	be	notified	which	coloured	kit	will 	
be worn in each match.
 F LOGOS – GENERAL PRINCIPLES
 1 In the case of the host team, the Commercial Logos may consist of the 
Event Logo and/or the Logos of up to three event, series or team sponsors. 
In the case of the visiting team the Commercial Logos may consist of the 
Logos of up to three team sponsors. For the avoidance of any doubt, no 
more than three sponsor names may be included in any Commercial Logo.
 2 Subject to the limitations contained in these Regulations a visiting 
team may display any Commercial Logo on its clothing or equipment 
irrespective	of	whether	such	Logos	may	conflict	with	any	sponsor	or	
supplier of the host Member Board. 22 Official	ICC	Apparel	Supplier	–	means	a	supplier	of	apparel	contracted	
by ICC or IDI, from time to time, to supply apparel to the ICC, IDI and the 
ICC umpires and referees. 
 23 Personal Message	–	has	the	meaning	ascribed	to	it	in	clause	G1	below.
 24 Player’s Bat Logo	–	means	an	ICC	Approved	Logo	of	a	sponsor	of	a	
player to be carried on the player’s bat; provided that such Logo shall 
not be either:
 a)  of, or confusingly similar to, or likely to be perceived as suggesting a 
connection with:
	 	 1)	 an	entity	which	conflicts	(whether	through	being	a	competitor	
or otherwise) with the exclusivity of any sponsor, supplier, 
or commercial partner of the Member Board of the player 
concerned or of an ICC Event; or
  2) a Manufacturer, other than the Manufacturer of the item of 
cricket equipment it is to be carried on; or
 b) a Betting Logo. 
	 	 ICC	shall	have	the	final	say	in	determining	whether	any	such	conflict	
or circumstances exist and no player may pursue any action against 
ICC or IDI, or against his team’s ICC Member Board should he be 
precluded from displaying a Player’s Bat Logo by reason of the same.
 C SCOPE OF APPLICATION
 1 These Regulations shall apply to all International Matches. Contractual 
agreements (for example Member Participation Agreements and Player 
Squad	Terms)	and	regulations	pertaining	specifically	to	individual	
ICC	Events	should	also	be	consulted	regarding	specific	instructions	
concerning clothing and equipment at such ICC Events. Where any 
conflict	arises	between	these	Regulations	and	the	obligations	contained	
in	any	specific	ICC	Event	agreement	and/or	regulation,	then	the	ICC	
Event	specific	agreement	and/or	regulations	shall	prevail.	
NOTE: One example of where the regulations governing ICC Events differ 
from these Regulations is that Player’s Bat Logos and Charity Logos shall not 
be permitted in Excluded Events. Accordingly, all players, agents, sponsors 
and manufacturers should ensure that they obtain a copy of any applicable 
agreements	and/or	regulations	before	finalising	any	arrangements	that	relate	
to the commercialisation of relevant cricket clothing and equipment during 
or in relation to any ICC Event. 
 2 These Regulations govern the authorisation of clothing and equipment 
worn	and	used	by	players	and	team	officials	of	Member	Board	
representative	teams.	Sponsor	advertising,	manufacturer	identification	
and the decorative rights of the Member Boards are also addressed.
 3	 The	aforesaid	persons	are	subject	to	these	provisions	when	on	official	
duty	for	the	aforesaid	matches,	either	on	the	field	of	play	or	as	
otherwise expressly stated. 
 4 These Regulations also cover sponsor advertising and manufacturer 
identification	on	stumps.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.6 19.7GUIDANCE NOTE: In determining whether a message is for a “political, religious 
or racial cause”, the starting point is that the ICC and its Members acknowledge 
and agree that cricket should be used as a tool to bring people and communities 
around the world together and not as a platform to draw attention to potentially 
divisive political issues, rhetoric or agendas. Each case must be considered 
on its own facts and the ICC will take into account all relevant circumstances, 
including	(as	it	sees	fit):	(a)	the	views	of	any	other	relevant	team	or	individual; 	
(b) the likely sentiment and response in the media to the message in all relevant 
countries; (c) whether the message is a ‘one-off’ or whether it is to be displayed 
for a longer period; (d) the purpose and impact of conveying the message. By 
way of example only, and without limitation, where the purpose of a message 
appears to be commemorative in nature (e.g. the use of a black armband or a 
poppy) or to serve a charitable purpose (e.g. to generate funds or awareness 
for a non-political charitable cause), it is more likely to be permitted; where 
a message appears to indicate support for a particular government, political 
party or individual, it is more likely to be prohibited. Where a request for 
approval is submitted to the ICC, the ICC shall be entitled to request such further 
information as it considers necessary before making its decision and to impose 
such	conditions	as	it	sees	fit	in	providing	its	approval	(as	applicable).
 2 Visible Tattoos (permanent or temporary) incorporating any Commercial 
or Manufacturer’s Logo shall not be permitted.
 H TRAINING CLOTHING
 1 Team Training Bibs: Shall be of a distinguishing colour to that of the 
playing shirts.
 2 Only training kit (which shall include tracksuits, sweatshirts, branded 
T-shirts, team training bibs etc.) issued to the team by its Board 
(hereinafter referred to as team training kit) may be worn by the players 
and	team	officials	within	the	precincts	of	the	ground	on	match	days	as	
well	as	at	all	official	team	practice	and	training	sessions.	
 3 Save for the requirement in the relevant playing conditions that squad 
members	of	the	fielding	team	who	are	not	playing	in	the	match	and	
who	are	not	acting	as	substitute	fielders	shall	be	required	to	wear	a	
team training bib whilst on the playing area (including the area between 
the boundary and the perimeter fencing). No training kit is to be worn 
by	players	on	the	field	during	the	hours	of	play.	
 4 Subject to the provisions of paragraphs F1, F6 and H1, and the proviso 
that the team training kit is uniform to all members of the same 
team, and other than in the case of Excluded Events, there shall be 
no restriction on the colour or design of the team training kit nor 
on the number, positioning and size of the National, Commercial or 
Manufacturer’s Logos thereon.
 I TOSS
 Players attending at the toss will be expected to be in team playing clothing. 
Team blazers shall be optional. 3 The host Member Board shall not require a visiting team to wear the 
Event Logo without the consent of the Board of the visiting team. There 
shall be no obligation to give such consent, but if it is given, the visiting 
team must forego the use by its team sponsors of one of the two 
Commercial Logos.
 4 Any Commercial Logo on clothing shall be decided by each Member 
Board and shall be common to and worn by each member of the team 
concerned. No individual Commercial Logos shall be worn by any 
team member, save for the carrying of a Player’s Bat Logo on bats, as 
provided herein.
 5	 The	National	Logo,	name	of	the	country	or	national	flag	should	not	
contain any advertising and must not interfere with any elements of the 
clothing identifying the player. 
 6 A visiting team shall abide by any law of the host country which restricts 
advertising of a product. No compensation shall be payable should a 
visiting team be precluded from displaying its Commercial Logos on 
Cricket Clothing or Cricket Equipment, and a visiting team shall not 
pursue any action against the host Member Board.
 7	 Only	one	Manufacturer	may	be	identified	on	each	article	of	cricket	
clothing and cricket equipment. 
 8 When required to be carried by a Manufacturer, any statutory wording 
is to be placed on the back of a player’s bat and to be of discreet design 
only (subject to relevant statutory provisions).
 G PERSONAL MESSAGES 
 1	 Players	and	team	officials	shall	not	be	permitted	to	wear,	display	or	
otherwise convey personal messages on their clothing, equipment 
or	otherwise,	irrespective	of	whether	such	messages	are	affixed	
to clothing, equipment or otherwise and whether such messages 
are	displayed	or	conveyed	through	the	use	of	the	specific	clothing	
or other items (e.g. an arm band) or by the use of words, symbol, 
graphic message, images or otherwise (“Personal Messages”), unless 
approved	in	advance	by	both	the	player	or	team	official’s	Board	and	
the ICC Cricket Operations Department. Approval shall not be granted 
for messages which relate to political, religious or racial activities or 
causes.	The	ICC	shall	have	the	final	say	in	determining	whether	any	such	
message is approved. For the avoidance of doubt, where a message 
is	approved	by	the	player	or	team	official’s	Board	but	subsequently	
disapproved by the ICC’s Cricket Operations Department, the player 
or	team	official	shall	not	be	permitted	to	wear,	display	or	otherwise	
convey such message in International Matches.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.8 19.9 3 ICC will review any application for a Logo or Personal Message to be ICC 
Approved which has been received in accordance with clause 2 above 
and	within	3	days	of	receipt	of	such	application	(counting	from	the	first	
business day on which, or following which, the application was received 
and discounting any intervening days which are not regular business 
days	–	e.g.	weekends	and	public	holidays)	shall	respond	to	the	applicant,	
acknowledging	receipt	of	the	application	and,	if	applicable,	confirming	
that ICC has been provided with the required information and materials 
or, alternatively, stating that ICC considers that it has not been provided 
with all requisite details/materials as set out in clause 2 above and 
requesting that the applicant provides the same.
 4 ICC shall use its best endeavours (but does not undertake) to provide its 
final	determination	to	the	applicant	for	a	Logo	or	Personal	Message	to	
be	ICC	Approved	within	10	business	days	of	its	having	confirmed	receipt	
of all requisite information and materials for such application.
 M BREACH OF REGULATIONS BY PLAYERS AND BOARDS
	 In	the	event	of	a	breach	by	any	player,	team	official	or	Board	of	these	Regulations, 	
the disciplinary process and sanctions set out in Appendix 2 shall apply. For the 
avoidance of doubt, a Board may breach these Regulations in circumstances 
where	it	issues	equipment	or	clothing	to	a	player	or	team	official	which	does	not 	
comply with the terms of these Regulations. 
 N BREACH OF REGULATIONS BY MANUFACTURERS
 In the event that any Manufacturer, in the absolute discretion of the ICC, 
repeatedly breaches the terms of these Regulations, the ICC reserves the right 
to revoke any approval granted to such Manufacturer pursuant to paragraph 
K above upon written notice to the Manufacturer. Any such revocation of 
approval	shall	take	effect	from	the	date	specified	in	the	written	notice.	 J PRESS CONFERENCES, POST- MATCH PRESENTATIONS  
AND TELEVISION INTERVIEWS
	 Players	or	team	officials	attending	post	match	presentation	ceremonies	and	
press conferences as well as television interviews conducted during or after 
the match shall be expected to be in either team playing clothing, team 
training kit excluding vests and shorts or other appropriate team clothing. 
 K MEASUREMENT METHOD
 Items will be measured according to their geometric shape. To calculate 
the surface area, items may be divided into several geometric forms. Non 
standard shapes will be measured as rectangles.
 L ICC APPROVAL
 1 In order for any Logo or Personal Message to be ICC Approved for use 
in any match or series of matches to which these Regulations apply, the 
party seeking approval (e.g. the entity claiming to be the Manufacturer 
in the case of approval sought for a Manufacturer’s Logo) must apply to 
ICC for the grant of such approval as set out in clause 2 below and such 
approval must have been granted in advance of the commencement of 
the match or series in question. Once a Logo or Personal Message has 
been ICC Approved for any relevant match or series of matches, such 
approval shall remain effective for all other applicable matches and 
series thereafter until either:
 a) such time as these Regulations may be amended or replaced in any 
way affecting the continuing compliance of such Logo or Personal 
Message in which case the Logo or Personal Message shall cease 
to be approved immediately unless the Logo or Personal Message 
is being used in a match or series at the time of ICC giving notice of 
the amendment or replacement of the Regulations or is due to be 
used in such a match or series within 30 days after such notice in 
which case such approval will cease to apply to the Logo or Personal 
Message concerned at the end of the match or series in question; or 
 b) until ICC gives notice that the Logo or Personal Message is no longer 
ICC Approved due to it ceasing to be in compliance with these 
Regulations from time to time (e.g. that since the original grant 
of ICC Approval, the Logo has become a Betting Logo) in which 
case the Logo or Personal Message will cease to be ICC approved 
immediately upon ICC giving notice to that effect.
 2 Any application to ICC for a Logo or Personal Message to be ICC 
Approved shall be sent to ICC at Dubai Sports City, PO Box 500070, 
Dubai,	marked	‘Cricket	Operations	Department’.	The	application	shall	
state the type of Logo for which the approval is sought (e.g. whether 
a Manufacturer’s Logo, a Player’s Bat Logo, etc.) or shall set out the 
wording of the proposed Personal Message and shall include a sample 
of the Logo or Personal Message for the item of Cricket Clothing or 
Cricket Equipment to which it is proposed (subject to approval being 
granted) to be applied. In respect of any Logo which is required by these 
Regulations to be within certain size parameters, the applicant must 
state the size which it considers such Logo to be and provide evidence 
of	how	this	has	been	calculated.	ICC	retains	the	final	say	in	determining	
whether any Logo is within the permitted parameters.19.10
CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19
19.11APPENDIX 1
CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
TEST MATCHES 
PLAYING	SWEATER	–	LONG	SLEEVED ............................................................................................................................... 19.12
PLAYING	SHIRT	–	SLEEVELESS ................................................................................................................................................... 19.14
PLAYING SHIRT ................................................................................................................................................................................................ 19.16
PLAYING TROUSERS ................................................................................................................................................................................. 19.18
PLAYING CAP AND SUNHAT ........................................................................................................................................................ 19.20
ONE DAY INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING	SWEATER	–	LONG	SLEEVED ............................................................................................................................... 1922
PLAYING	SHIRT	–	SLEEVELESS .................................................................................................................................................. 19.24
PLAYING SHIRT .............................................................................................................................................................................................. 19.26
PLAYING TROUSERS ............................................................................................................................................................................... 19.28
PLAYING CAP AND SUNHAT ........................................................................................................................................................ 19.30
T20 INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING	SWEATER	–	LONG	SLEEVED .............................................................................................................................. 19.32
PLAYING	SHIRT	–	SLEEVELESS .................................................................................................................................................. 19.34
PLAYING SHIRT ............................................................................................................................................................................................... 19.36
PLAYING TROUSERS ................................................................................................................................................................................ 19.38
PLAYING CAP AND SUNHAT ........................................................................................................................................................ 19.40
OTHER CLOTHING
TEAM TRAINING BIB ................................................................................................................................................................................ 19.42
T-SHIRTS ................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 19.43
SKINS .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 19.44
SOCKS ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 19.45
TURBANS, BANDANAS AND HIJABS .................................................................................................................................. 19.46
HEADBANDS AND WRISTBANDS ............................................................................................................................................ 19.47
CRICKET EQUIPMENT
CRICKET BAT ...................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1948
WICKET KEEPER GLOVES .................................................................................................................................................................. 19.49
BATTING GLOVES ....................................................................................................................................................................................... 19.50
HELMET ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 19.51
WICKET KEEPER PADS ........................................................................................................................................................................... 19.52
BATTING PADS ................................................................................................................................................................................................ 19.53
SHOES AND BOOTS ................................................................................................................................................................................. 19.54
SUN GLASSES .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 19.55
ARM GUARDS .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 19.56
FACE PROTECTOR ....................................................................................................................................................................................... 19.57
STUMPS .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 19.58
THIGH PADS, SHIN PROTECTORS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ................................................................ 19.59CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.12 19.13TEST MATCHES
PLAYING SWEATER – LONG SLEEVED
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the bottom up to the chest
1 Commercial Logo or
1 Manufacturer’s Identification
6 sq inches (38.7cm²) 
with no single dimension 
smaller than
1.5 inches (3.81cm²)
Charity Logo 1 of 2 positions
if not already on shirt collar
2.59 sq inches (16.7cm²)
(see note)National Logo 
(1 of 2 positions)
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)(Leading arm)Commercial Logo
2 positions if not on shirt collar
1 of 2 positions if also on shirt collar
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)
Official Product Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²) FRONT BACKQuality Feature Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• The colours and design of the sweaters (including Logos) 
shall be uniform to all members of the same team. 
• Sweaters shall be plain white/cream, save that 
coloured piping or trim and stripes shall be permitted 
subject to the following restrictions:
 • Piping is restricted to 0.5 cm (0.2 in) in width.
 • Only one colour of piping/trim is permitted on  
any sweater.
 • Piping is restricted to the sweater seams.
 • Stripes in team colours are permitted around the 
waist, neck (traditional V shape) and wrist cuffs.• One of the following numbers is permitted to be 
displayed on the long sleeved sweaters in a position 
immediately below the National Logo on the front of 
the sweater: 
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his  
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player  
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 Tests etc.).
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the chest or 
sleeve of the long sleeved sweater. Such initials shall 
not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.• Players representing Member Boards who have won 
the ICC Test Play-off may display a symbol on the 
sweater for each of the occasions that this has been 
achieved. No restrictions on position. Each symbol 
shall not exceed 1 sq cm in size.
• The name of the opposing touring team or the name 
of the country being toured as well as the year of such 
tour may be displayed on the chest of the sweater 
immediately below the National Logo provided such 
numbers and letters shall not exceed 1 cm (0.4 in)  
in height. 
• Charity ribbons/logos that are worn on team uniforms 
must be transferred on to the uniform. Stick on logos are 
also permitted. Ribbons/logos with pins are not permitted. CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.14 19.15TEST MATCHES
PLAYING SWEATER – SLEEVELESS
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the bottom up to the chest
Commercial Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)
National Logo 
(1 of 2 positions)
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)
Official Product Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Quality Feature Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)
FRONT BACK
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• The colours and design of the sweaters (including Logos) 
shall be uniform to all members of the same team. 
• Sweaters shall be plain white/cream, save that 
coloured piping or trim and stripes shall be permitted 
subject to the following restrictions:
 • Piping is restricted to 0.5 cm (0.2 in) in width.
 • Only one colour of piping/trim is permitted  
on any sweater.
 • Piping is restricted to the sweater seams.
 • Stripes in team colours are permitted around  
the waist and neck (traditional V shape).
 • One of the following numbers is permitted to be 
displayed on the sleeveless sweaters in a position 
immediately below the National Logo on the front  
of the sweater:
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his  
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player  
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 Tests etc.).
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the chest of 
the sleeveless sweater. Such initials shall not be more 
than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.
 • Players representing Member Boards who have won the 
ICC Test Play-off may display a symbol on the sweater 
for each of the occasions that this accomplishment has 
been achieved. No restrictions on position. Each symbol 
shall not exceed 1 sq cm in size.
• The name of the opposing touring team or the name 
of the country being toured as well as the year of such 
tour may be displayed on the chest of the sleeveless 
sweater immediately below the National Logo 
provided such numbers and letters shall not exceed  
1 cm (0.4 in) in height. CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.16 19.17TEST MATCHES
PLAYING SHIRT
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the bottom up to the chest  
NOTE: The World Test Championship Logo displayed in the number shall be white only
1 Commercial Logo or
1 Manufacturer’s Identification
6 sq inches (38.7cm²) 
with no single dimension 
smaller than
1.5 inches (3.81cm²)
Inside placket may be
one plain colour
other than white
Charity Logo
1 of 2 positions
2.59 sq inches (16.7cm²)
(see note)Commercial Logo
2 of 3 positions
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)
National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)
Official Product Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Quality Feature Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)
FRONT BACK(Leading arm)Name 
Height of letters
minimum 2.34 inches (6cm) 
maximum 2.93 inches (7.5cm)
Number
Height of number
minimum 9.75 inches (25cm) 
maximum 13.65 inches (35cm)
National Logo 
or World Test 
Championship Logo 
(on each number)
2 sq inches (12.9cm)
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• The colours and design of the shirts (including Logos) 
shall be uniform to all members of the same team. 
Playing shirt sleeves may be cut to any length, as long 
as both sleeves are evenly trimmed and the edges are 
sewn and hemmed.
• Playing shirts shall be plain white/cream, save that 
coloured piping or trim shall be permitted subject to 
the following restrictions.
 • Piping is restricted to 0.5 cm (0.2 in) in width.
 • Only one colour of piping/trim is permitted  
on any shirt.
 • Piping is restricted to the edge of the shirt collar,  
shirt seams and cuffs.
• The inside of the placket may be of a plain colour 
other than white.• Effective from 1st August 2019, the names and 
numbers of players carried on the playing shirts shall 
correctly	reflect	the	identity	of	the	player.	The	number	
on the shirts shall be clearly legible, positioned in the 
centre back of the shirt. 
•	 The	range	of	permitted	numbers	is	1	–	99.
•	 The	numbers	 shall	be	sewn	on	or	fixed	by	heat	transfer	
and	not	affixed	by	Velcro	or	any	temporary	means.	
• The names must be positioned above the number 
on the back of the shirt and the letters used must be 
clearly legible. 
• The names and numbers may not contain any 
advertising elements.
• One of the following numbers is permitted to be 
displayed on the playing shirts in a position immediately 
below the National Logo on the front of the shirt: 
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his  
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player  
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 Tests etc.).
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the chest or 
sleeve of the playing shirt. Such initials shall not be 
more than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.• Teams participating in the ICC World Test 
Championship may display the year the country 
played	its	first	Test	Match	above	the	National	Logo.	
Such numbers shall not exceed 1cm (0.4in).
• Teams participating in the ICC World Test 
Championship	final	may	display	the	names	of	the	
competing	teams	and	the	date	and	venue	of	the	final	
below the National Logo. Such letters and numbers 
shall not exceed 1 cm (0.4 in).
• The name of the opposing touring team or the name 
of the country being toured as well as the year of such 
tour may be displayed on the chest of the playing 
shirt immediately below the National Logo provided 
such numbers and letters shall not exceed 1 cm (0.4 in)  
in height. 
• Charity ribbons/logos that are worn on team uniforms 
must be transferred on to the uniform. Stick on  
logos are also permitted. Ribbons/logos with pins  
are not permitted. CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.18 19.19TEST MATCHES
PLAYING TROUSERS
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the knee up to the waist
National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)Official Product Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)
Manufacturer’s 
Identification
2 sq inches (12.9cm²)Quality Feature Label
0.5 sq inches 
(3.22cm²)
Trim
(see note)
Piping 
(see note)
FRONT SIDE
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• Trousers shall be plain white/cream, save that 
coloured piping or trim shall be permitted subject to 
the following restrictions:
 • Piping is restricted to 0.5 cm (0.2 in) in width.
 • Piping is restricted to the edge of the pockets and 
the outside seam of the leg of the trousers.
 • Only one colour of piping/trim is permitted and 
shall be the same colour as the piping/trim, if any, 
on the playing shirt.
 • If coloured piping/trim is used, the colour and 
design of the trousers (including Logos) shall be 
uniform to all members of the same team.
 • The inside of the pocket may be of a plain colour 
other than white/cream.• None permitted. • None permitted.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.20 19.21TEST MATCHES
PLAYING CAP AND SUN HAT
NOTE
National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)
One Manufacturer’s Identification
(Back or one side)
2 sq inches (12.9cm²)
FRONT BACK
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
•	 Colour	–	Caps	and	sunhats	must	be	the	same	colour	 
to all members of the same team. As an alternative,  
a white sunhat may be worn.
•	 Design	–	The	design	of	the	cap	and	sunhat	shall	be	
uniform to all members of the same team.• One of the following numbers is permitted to be 
displayed on the caps and sunhats in a position 
immediately below the National Logo:
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his  
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player  
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 Tests etc.).
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the back or side 
of the cap or sunhat. Such initials shall not be more 
than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.• None permitted.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.22 19.23ONE DAY INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING SWEATER – LONG SLEEVED
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the bottom up to the chest
National Logo
10 sq inches 
(64.5cm²)Commercial Logo
10 sq inches 
(64.5cm²)Charity Logo 1 of 2 positions 
if not already on shirt collar
2.59 sq inches (16.7cm²) (see note)
Commercial Logo
1 of 2 positions
Middle 32 sq inches 
(206.45cm²)
Upper right 10 sq inches 
(64.5cm²)1 Commercial Logo or
1 Manufacturer’s Identification
1 of 3 positions. 
6 sq inches (38.71cm²) 
with no single dimension 
smaller than 
1.5 inches (3.81cm²)Name 
1 of 2 positions
Height of letters
minimum 2.34 inches (6cm) 
maximum 2.93 inches (7.5cm)
Number
Height of number
minimum 9.75 inches 
(25cm) 
maximum 13.65 inches 
(35cm)
National Logo (on each number)
2 sq inches (12.9cm²)Official Product Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Quality Feature Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Identification Strip 
maximum 3.15 sq inches (8cm) wide
(Leading arm)
FRONT BACK SIDE
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• Each Member Board shall be entitled to choose the 
colours and design of its playing sweater subject to 
the following restrictions:
 • The sweaters shall be coloured other than white, 
cream or any light colour which is likely to make the 
sighting	of	a	white	ball	difficult,	the	decision	of	the	
ICC	Senior	Cricket	Operations	Manager	being	final.	
 • The colours and design of the playing sweaters 
(including Logos) shall be uniform to all members of 
the same team. 
 • Each Member Board shall be required to register  
the pantone colours of its playing clothing with the 
ICC prior to its use thereof.• In the event of names and/or numbers of players 
being carried on the playing sweaters, they shall 
correctly	reflect	the	identity	of	the	player.	The	number	
on the sweaters shall be clearly legible and positioned 
in the centre back of the sweater. 
•	 The	numbers	 shall	be	sewn	on	or	fixed	by	heat	transfer	
and	not	affixed	by	Velcro	or	any	temporary	means.	
• The names must be positioned above or below the 
number on the back of the sweater and the letters 
used must be clearly legible. 
• The names and numbers may not contain any 
advertising elements.
• In addition, one of the following numbers is permitted 
to be displayed on the playing sweaters in a position 
immediately below the National Logo on the front of 
the sweater: 
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his 
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player 
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 ODIs etc.).
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the chest or 
sleeve of the long sleeved sweater. Such initials shall 
not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.• Nothing contained herein shall prevent the National 
Logo,	the	name	of	the	country	and/or	the	national	flag 	
or elements contained therein from being incorporated 
as part of the design of the playing sweaters.
• Players representing Member Boards who have won 
the ICC Cricket World Cup may display a symbol on 
the playing sweater for each of the occasions that this 
accomplishment has been achieved. No restrictions on 
position. Each symbol shall not exceed 1 sq cm in size.
• The name of the opposing touring team or the  
name of the country being toured as well as the year  
of such tour may be displayed on the chest of the 
playing sweater immediately below the National Logo 
provided such numbers and letters shall not exceed  
1 cm (0.4 in) in height. 
• Charity ribbons/logos that are worn on team uniforms 
must be transferred on to the uniform. Stick on 
 logos are also permitted. Ribbons/logos with pins  
are not permitted. CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.24 19.25ONE DAY INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING SWEATER – SLEEVELESS
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the bottom up to the chest
National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)Commercial Logo
1 of 2 positions
Middle 32 sq inches (206.45cm²)
Upper right 10 sq inches (64.5cm²)1 Commercial Logo or
1 Manufacturer’s Identification
1 of 2 positions. 
6 sq inches (38.71cm²) 
withno single dimension 
smaller than 
1½ inches (3.81cm²)Name 
1 of 2 positions
Height of letters
minimum 2.34 inches (6cm) 
maximum 2.93 inches (7.5cm)
Number
Height of number
minimum 9.75 inches (25cm) 
maximum 13.65 inches (35cm)
National Logo (on each number)
2 sq inches (12.9cm²)
Official Product Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Quality Feature Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Identification Strip 
maximum 3.15 sq inches (8cm) wide
FRONT BACK SIDE
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• Each Member Board shall be entitled to choose the 
colours and design of its playing sweater subject to 
the following restrictions:
 • The sweaters shall be coloured other than white, 
cream or any light colour which is likely to make the 
sighting	of	a	white	ball	difficult,	the	decision	of	the	
ICC	Senior	Cricket	Operations	Manager	being	final.	
 • The colours and design of the playing sweaters 
(including Logos) shall be uniform to all members  
of the same team. 
 • Each Member Board shall be required to register  
the pantone colours of its playing clothing with the 
ICC prior to its use thereof.• In the event of names and/or numbers of players 
being carried on the playing sweaters, they shall 
correctly	reflect	the	identity	of	the	player.	The	number	
on the sweaters shall be clearly legible, positioned in 
the centre back of the sweater. 
•	 The	numbers	 shall	be	sewn	on	or	fixed	by	heat	transfer	
and	not	affixed	by	Velcro	or	any	temporary	means.	
• The names must be positioned above or below the 
number on the back of the sweater and the letters 
used must be clearly legible. 
• The names and numbers may not contain any 
advertising elements.
• In addition, one of the following numbers is permitted 
to be displayed on the playing sweaters in a position 
immediately below the National Logo on the front of 
the sweater: 
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his  
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player  
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 ODIs etc.). 
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the chest of 
the sleeveless sweater. Such initials shall not be more 
than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.• Nothing contained herein shall prevent the National 
Logo,	the	name	of	the	country	and/or	the	national	flag 	
or elements contained therein from being incorporated 
as part of the design of the playing sweaters.
• Players representing Member Boards who have won 
the ICC Cricket World Cup may display a symbol 
on the chest of the playing sweater for each of 
the occasions that this accomplishment has been 
achieved. No restrictions on position. Each symbol 
shall not exceed 1 sq cm in size.
• The name of the opposing touring team or the name 
of the country being toured as well as the year of 
such tour may be displayed on the chest of the 
playing sweater immediately below the National Logo 
provided such numbers and letters shall not exceed  
1 cm (0.4 in) in height.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.26 19.27ONE DAY INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING SHIRT
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the bottom up to the chestCommercial Logo
1 of 2 positions
Middle 32 sq inches (206.45cm²)
Upper right 10 sq inches (64.5cm²)Commercial Logo
(Leading arm on sleeve)
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)Charity Logo 1 of 2 positions
2.59 sq inches (16.7cm²) (see note)
National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)1 Commercial Logo or
1 Manufacturer’s Identification
1 of 3 positions. 
6 sq inches (38.71cm²), 
with no single dimension 
smaller than 1.5 inches (3.81cm²)
Official Product Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Quality Feature Label
0.5 sq inch (3.22cm²)Name 
1 of 2 positions
Height of letters
minimum 2.34 inches (6cm) 
maximum 2.93 inches (7.5cm)Identification Strip 
maximum 3.15 sq inches (8cm) wide
Number
Height of number
minimum 9.75 inches (25cm) 
maximum 13.65 inches (35cm)
National Logo (on each number)
2 sq inches (12.9cm)
FRONT BACK SIDE
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• Each Member Board shall be entitled to choose the 
colours and design of its playing shirt subject to the 
following restrictions:
 • The playing shirts shall be coloured other than 
white, cream or any light colour which is likely 
to	make	the	sighting	of	a	white	ball	difficult,	the	
decision of the ICC Senior Cricket Operations 
Manager	being	final.
 • The colours and design of the playing shirts 
(including Logos) shall be uniform to all members  
of the same team. 
 • Playing shirt sleeves may be cut to any length,  
as long as both sleeves are evenly trimmed and  
the edges are sewn and hemmed.
 • Each Member Board shall be required to register  
the pantone colours of its playing clothing with the  
ICC prior to its use thereof.• In the event of names and/or numbers of players  
being carried on the playing shirts, they shall correctly 
reflect	the	identity	of	the	player.	The	number	on	the	
shirts shall be clearly legible, positioned in the centre 
back of the shirt. 
•	 The	numbers	 shall	be	sewn	on	or	fixed	by	heat	transfer	
and	not	affixed	by	Velcro	or	any	temporary	means.	
• The names must be positioned above or below the 
number on the back of the shirt and the letters used 
must be clearly legible. 
• The names and numbers may not contain any 
advertising elements.
• In addition, one of the following numbers is permitted 
to be displayed on the playing shirts in a position 
immediately below the National Logo on the front  
of the shirt:
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his  
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player  
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 ODIs etc.).
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the chest or 
sleeve of the playing shirt. Such initials shall not be 
more than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.• Nothing contained herein shall prevent the National 
Logo,	the	name	of	the	country	and/or	the	national	flag 	
or elements contained therein from being incorporated 
as part of the design of the playing shirts.
• Players representing Member Boards who have won 
the ICC Cricket World Cup may display a symbol on  
the chest of the playing shirt for each of the occasions 
that this accomplishment has been achieved.  
No restrictions on position. Each symbol shall not 
exceed 1 sq cm in size.
• The name of the opposing touring team or the name 
of the country being toured as well as the year of such 
tour may be displayed on the chest of the playing 
shirt immediately below the National Logo provided 
such numbers and letters shall not exceed 1 cm (0.4 in)  
in height. 
• Charity ribbons/logos that are worn on team uniforms 
must be transferred on to the uniform. Stick on  
logos are also permitted. Ribbons/logos with pins  
are not permitted. CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.28 19.29ONE DAY INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING TROUSERS
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the knee up to the waist
Manufacturer’s
Identification 
2 sq inches (12.9cm²)Identification Strip
maximum 3.15 sq inches (8cm)Quality
Feature Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Official Product Label
0.5 sq inch (3.22cm²)
National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)
One Number 
(either side)
Height of the number
minimum 3.9 sq inches (10cm)
maximum 5.85sq inches (15cm)
FRONT SIDE
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• Each Member Board shall be entitled to choose the 
colours and design of its playing trousers subject to 
the following restrictions:
 • The playing trousers shall be coloured other than 
white, cream or any light colour which is likely 
to	make	the	sighting	of	a	white	ball	difficult,	the	
decision of the ICC Senior Cricket Operations 
Manager	being	final.	
 • The colours and design of the playing trousers 
(including Logos) shall be uniform to all members  
of the same team. 
 • Each Member Board shall be required to register  
the pantone colours of its playing clothing with the  
ICC prior to its use thereof.• In the event of numbers being carried on the trousers, 
they shall be clearly legible and positioned on the 
front of either leg above the knee. 
•	 The	numbers	 shall	be	sewn	on	or	fixed	by	heat	transfer	
and	not	affixed	by	Velcro	or	any	temporary	means.• Nothing contained herein shall prevent the National 
Logo,	the	name	of	the	country	and/or	the	national	flag 	
or elements contained therein from being incorporated 
as part of the design of the playing trousers.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.30 19.31ONE DAY INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING CAP AND SUN HAT
NOTE
National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)
One Manufacturer’s Identification
(Back or one side)
2 sq inches (12.9cm²)
FRONT BACK
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
•	 Colour	–	Caps	and	sunhats	must	be	the	same	colour	 
to all members of the same team. As an alternative,  
a white sunhat may be worn if a team issued coloured 
sunhat has not been provided.
•	 Design	–	The	design	of	the	cap	and	sunhat	shall	be	
uniform to all members of the same team.• One of the following numbers is permitted to be 
displayed on the caps and sunhats in a position 
immediately below the National Logo or on one side:
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his  
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player  
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 ODIs etc.).
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the back or one 
side of the cap or sunhat. Such initials shall not be 
more than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.• None permitted.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.32 19.33T20 INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING SWEATER – LONG SLEEVED
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the bottom up to the chest
Commercial Logo 
1 of 2 positions
32 sq inches (206.45cm²)National Logo
10 sq inches 
(64.5cm²)Commercial Logo
10 sq inches 
(64.5cm²)Charity Logo 
1 of 2 positions
(if not already on shirt collar)
2.59 sq inches (16.7cm²) (see note)
1 Commercial Logo or
1 Manufacturer’s Identification
1 of 3 positions. 
6 sq inches (38.71cm²) 
with no single dimension 
smaller than 
1.5 inches (3.81cm²)
National Logo
(on each number)
2 sq inches (12.9cm²)
Official Product Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Quality Feature Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Identification Strip 
maximum 3.15 sq inches (8cm) wide
(Leading arm)
FRONT BACK SIDENumber
Height of number
minimum 9.75 inches (25cm)
maximum 13.65 inches (35cm)
Commercial Logo
1 of 2 positions
Middle 32 sq inches 
(206.45cm² )
Upper right 10 sq inches 
(64.5cm² )Name 1 of 2 positions
Height of letters
minimum 2.34 inches (6cm)
maximum 2.93 inches (7.5cm)
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• Each Member Board shall be entitled to choose the 
colours and design of its playing sweater subject to 
the following restrictions:
 • The sweaters shall be coloured other than white, 
cream or any light colour which is likely to make the 
sighting	of	a	white	ball	difficult,	the	decision	of	the	
ICC	Senior	Cricket	Operations	Manager	being	final.	
 • The colours and design of the playing sweaters 
(including Logos) shall be uniform to all members  
of the same team.
 • Each Member Board shall be required to register  
the pantone colours of its playing clothing with the 
ICC prior to its use thereof.• In the event of names and/or numbers of players  
being carried on the playing sweaters, they shall 
correctly	reflect	the	identity	of	the	player.	The	number	
on the sweaters shall be clearly legible, positioned in 
the centre back of the sweater. 
•	 The	numbers	 shall	be	sewn	on	or	fixed	by	heat	transfer	
and	not	affixed	by	Velcro	or	any	temporary	means.	
• The names must be positioned above or below the 
number on the back of the sweater and the letters 
used must be clearly legible. 
• The names and numbers may not contain any 
advertising elements.
• In addition, one of the following numbers is permitted 
to be displayed on the playing sweaters in a position 
immediately below the National Logo on the front of 
the sweater:
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his  
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player  
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 T20Is etc.). 
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the chest or 
sleeve of the long sleeved sweater. Such initials shall 
not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.• Nothing contained herein shall prevent the National 
Logo,	the	name	of	the	country	and/or	the	national	flag 	
or elements contained therein from being incorporated 
as part of the design of the playing sweaters.
• Players representing Member Boards who have won 
the ICC World Twenty20 may display a symbol on the 
chest or sleeve of the long sleeved playing sweater 
for each of the occasions that this accomplishment 
has been achieved. No restrictions on position. Each 
symbol shall not exceed 1 sq cm in size.
• The name of the opposing touring team or the  
name of the country being toured as well as the year  
of such tour may be displayed on the chest of the 
playing sweater immediately below the National Logo 
provided such numbers and letters shall not exceed  
1 cm (0.4 in) in height. 
• Charity ribbons/logos that are worn on team uniforms 
must be transferred on to the uniform. Stick on  
logos are also permitted. Ribbons/logos with pins  
are not permitted. CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.34 19.35T20 INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING SWEATER – SLEEVELESS
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the bottom up to the chest
National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)Commercial Logo
1 of 2 positions
Middle 32 sq inches (206.45cm²)
Upper right 10 sq inches (64.5cm²)1 Commercial Logo or
1 Manufacturer’s Identification
1 of 2 positions. 
6 sq inches (38.71cm²)
with no single dimension 
smaller than
1.5 sq inches (3.81cm²)
Number
Height of number
minimum 9.75 inches (25cm) 
maximum 13.65 inches (35cm)
National Logo
(on each number)
2 sq inches (12.9cm²)
Commercial Logo 
1 of 2 positions
32 sq inches (206.45cm²)
Official Product Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Quality Feature Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Identification Strip 
maximum 3.15 sq inches (8cm) wide
FRONT BACK SIDEName
1 of 2 positions
Height of letters
minimum 2.34 inches (6cm)
maximum 2.93 inches (7.5cm)
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• Each Member Board shall be entitled to choose the 
colours and design of its playing sweater subject to 
the following restrictions:
 • The sweaters shall be coloured other than white, 
cream or any light colour which is likely to make  
the	sighting	of	a	white	ball	difficult,	the	decision	of	the 	
ICC	Senior	Cricket	Operations	Manager	being	final. 	
 • The colours and design of the playing sweaters 
(including Logos) shall be uniform to all members  
of the same team.
 • Each Member Board shall be required to register  
the pantone colours of its playing clothing with the 
ICC prior to its use thereof.• In the event of names and/or numbers of players  
being carried on the playing sweaters, they shall 
correctly	reflect	the	identity	of	the	player.	The	number	
on the sweaters shall be clearly legible, positioned in 
the centre back of the sweater. 
•	 The	numbers	 shall	be	sewn	on	or	fixed	by	heat	transfer	
and	not	affixed	by	Velcro	or	any	temporary	means.	
• The names must be positioned above or below the 
number on the back of the sweater and the letters 
used must be clearly legible. 
• The names and numbers may not contain any 
advertising elements.
• In addition, one of the following numbers is permitted 
to be displayed on the playing sweaters in a position 
immediately below the National Logo on the front of 
the sweater: 
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his  
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player  
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 T20Is etc.). 
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the chest of 
the sleeveless sweater. Such initials shall not be more 
than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.• Nothing contained herein shall prevent the National 
Logo,	the	name	of	the	country	and/or	the	national	flag 	
or elements contained therein from being incorporated 
as part of the design of the playing sweaters.
• Players representing Member Boards who have  
won the ICC World Twenty20 may display a symbol 
on the chest of the playing sweater for each of 
the occasions that this accomplishment has been 
achieved. No restrictions on position. Each symbol 
shall not exceed 1 sq cm in size.
• The name of the opposing touring team or the name of 
the country being toured as well as the year of such tour 
may be displayed on the playing sweaters immediately 
below the National Logo provided such numbers and 
letters shall not exceed 1 cm (0.4 in) in height. CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.36 19.37T20 INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING SHIRT
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the bottom up to the chestNational Logo (on each number)
2 sq inches (12.9cm²)
Commercial Logo
1 of 2 positions
32 sq inches (206.45cm²)Name 
1 of 2 positions
Height of letters
minimum 2.34 inches (6cm) 
maximum 2.93 inches (7.5cm)Identification Strip 
maximum 3.15 sq inches (8cm) wide
Commercial Logo
1 of 2 positions
Middle 32 sq inches (206.45cm²)
Upper right 10 sq inches (64.5cm²)Commercial Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)Charity Logo 
1 of 2 positions
2.59 sq inches (16.7cm²) (see note)
National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)1 Commercial Logo or
1 Manufacturer’s Identification
1 of 3 positions. 
6 sq inches (38.71cm²) 
withno single dimension 
smaler than
1.5 inches (3.81cm²)
Official Product Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Quality Feature Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)(Leading arm)
FRONT BACK SIDENumber
Height of number
minimum 9.75 inches (25cm)
maximum 13.65 inches (35cm)
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• Each Member Board shall be entitled to choose the 
colours and design of its playing shirt subject to the 
following restrictions:
 • The playing shirts shall be coloured other than 
white, cream or any light colour which is likely 
to	make	the	sighting	of	a	white	ball	difficult,	the	
decision of the ICC Senior Cricket Operations 
Manager	being	final.	
 • The colours and design of the playing shirts 
(including Logos) shall be uniform to all members 
of the same team. Playing shirt sleeves may be cut 
to any length, as long as both sleeves are evenly 
trimmed and the edges are sewn and hemmed.
 • Each Member Board shall be required to register  
the pantone colours of its playing clothing with the 
ICC prior to its use thereof.• In the event of names and/or numbers of players 
being	carried	on	the	shirts,	they	shall	correctly	reflect	
the identity of the player. The number on the shirts 
shall be clearly legible, positioned in the centre back 
of the shirt.
•	 The	numbers	 shall	be	sewn	on	or	fixed	by	heat	transfer	
and	not	affixed	by	Velcro	or	any	temporary	means.	
• The names must be positioned above or below the 
number on the back of the shirt and the letters used 
must be clearly legible.
• The names and numbers may not contain any 
advertising elements.
• In addition, one of the following numbers is permitted 
to be displayed on the playing shirts in a position 
immediately below the National Logo on the front  
of the shirt:
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his 
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player  
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 T20Is etc.).
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the chest or 
sleeve of the playing shirt. Such initials shall not be 
more than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.• Nothing contained herein shall prevent the National 
Logo, the name of the country and/or the national 
flag	or	elements	contained	therein	from	being	
incorporated as part of the design of the playing shirt.
• Players representing Member Boards who have won 
the ICC World Twenty20 may display a symbol on the 
chest of the playing shirt for each of the occasions 
that this accomplishment has been achieved. No 
restrictions on position. Each symbol shall not exceed 
1 sq cm in size.
• The name of the opposing touring team or the name 
of the country being toured as well as the year of such 
tour may be displayed on the chest of the playing 
shirt immediately below the National Logo provided 
such numbers and letters shall not exceed 1 cm (0.4 in)  
in height. 
• Charity ribbons/logos that are worn on team uniforms 
must be transferred on to the uniform. Stick on  
logos are also permitted. Ribbons/logos with pins  
are not permitted. CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.38 19.39T20 INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING TROUSERS
NOTENOTE: Zips, poppers, buttons and Velcro are not permitted anywhere from the knee up to the waist
Commercial Logo
1 of 2 positions
(see opposite)
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)
One number (either side)
Height of number 
minimum 3.9 sq inches (10cm)
maximum 5.85 sq inches (15cm) National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)Quality Feature Label 
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)Official Product Label
0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²)
Manufacturer’s 
Identification 
2 sq inches (12.9cm²)Identification Strip
maximum 3.15 sq inches (8cm) wide
or 
A Commercial Logo 
can replace the Identification Strip 
here instead of on the front 
(written only once down the side of one leg)
Height of the letters 
not exceeding 3.15 sq inches (8cm)
FRONT SIDE
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
• Each Member Board shall be entitled to choose the 
colours and design of its playing trousers subject to 
the following restrictions:
 • The playing trousers shall be coloured other than 
white, cream or any light colour which is likely 
to	make	the	sighting	of	a	white	ball	difficult,	the	
decision of the ICC Senior Cricket Operations 
Manager	being	final.	
 • The colours and design of the playing trousers 
(including Logos) shall be uniform to all members  
of the same team. 
 • Each Member Board shall be required to register  
the pantone colours of its playing clothing with the 
ICC prior to its use thereof.• In the event of numbers being carried on the trousers, 
they shall be clearly legible and positioned on the 
front of either leg above the knee. 
•	 The	numbers	 shall	be	sewn	on	or	fixed	by	heat	transfer	
and	not	affixed	by	Velcro	or	any	temporary	means.• Nothing contained herein shall prevent the National 
Logo,	the	name	of	the	country	and/or	the	national	flag 	
or elements contained therein from being incorporated 
as part of the design of the playing trousers.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.40 19.41T20 INTERNATIONALS
PLAYING CAP AND SUN HAT
NOTE
National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²)
One Manufacturer’s Identification
(Back or one side)
2 sq inches (12.9cm²)
and 
One Commercial Logo
(back or one side)
6 sq inches (38.71cm²)
FRONT BACK
COLOUR AND DESIGN NAME, NUMBER AND INITIALS OTHER MARKS AND INSIGNIA
•	 Colour	–	Caps	and	sunhats	must	be	the	same	colour	 
to all members of the same team. As an alternative,  
a white sunhat may be worn if a team issued coloured 
sunhat has not been provided.
•	 Design	–	The	design	of	the	cap	and	sunhat	shall	be	
uniform to all members of the same team.• One of the following numbers is permitted to be 
displayed on the caps and sunhats in a position 
immediately below the National Logo or on one side:
 • Indicating a player’s order of selection for his  
country, or
 • Indicating the number of caps earned by a player  
for his country, or
 • Indicating a player’s landmark achievement  
(50, 100, 150 T20Is etc.). 
• Such numbers shall not be more than 2 cm (0.78 in)  
in height.
• A player’s initials may be displayed on the back or side 
of the cap or sunhat. Such initials shall not be more 
than 2 cm (0.78 in) in height.• Nothing contained herein shall prevent the National 
Logo, the name of the country and/or the national 
flag	or	elements	contained	therein	from	being	
incorporated as part of the design of the playing cap 
and sunhat.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.42 19.43OTHER CLOTHING
TEAM TRAINING BIBOTHER CLOTHING
T-SHIRTS (worn under playing shirt)
NOTE NOTE
COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
• Of one colour and uniform to all members 
of the same team.
• Of a distinguishing colour to that of the 
playing shirt/sweaters.• Member Logo, Country Name,  
Player	Name	and	Number	on	shirts	–	 
No restrictions.COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
•	 Test	Matches	–	plain	white.
•	 ODIs/T20Is	–	plain	white	or	the	 
same colour as the base colour of  
the playing shirt.• No visible logos permitted.Two Team Sponsor’s Logos
Not exceeding 32 sq inches (206.45cm²)
one on the front and one on the backOne Manufacturer’s Logo
Not exceeding 6 sq inches (38.7cm²)
position optional CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.44 19.45OTHER CLOTHING
SKINS (worn under playing shirt)OTHER CLOTHING
SOCKS
NOTE
COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
•	 Test	Matches	–	plain	white.
•	 ODIs/T20Is	–	of	one	colour	and	uniform	 
for all members of the same team; and  
The same colour as any colour of the 
playing shirt or trousers. 
 White skins may be worn provided they 
do not protrude from the shirt sleeves.• No visible logos permitted.NOTE
COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
•	 Test	Matches	–	white,	cream	or	light	grey.
•	 ODIs/T20Is	–	white,	cream	or	light	grey	or	
the same colour as the base colour of the 
playing trousers. •	 Apart	from	Manufacturer’s	Identification,	 
no visible logos are permitted.One Manufacturer’s 
Identification permitted
on each sock
2sq inches (12.9cm²)CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.46 19.47OTHER CLOTHING
TURBANS, BANDANAS AND HIJABS OTHER CLOTHING
HEADBANDS AND WRISTBANDS
NOTE
COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
•	 Test	Matches	–	plain	black	or	plain	white.
•	 ODIs/T20Is	–	plain	black	or	the	same	 
plain base colour as the team cap.  
White is not permitted. • No visible logos permitted.NOTE
COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
•	 Test	Matches	–	plain	white.
•	 ODIs/T20Is	–	plain	coloured	other	than	
white or any light colour which is likely  
to make the sighting of the white ball 
difficult,	the	decision	of	the	ICC	Match	
Referee	being	final.• No visible logos permitted.A bandana may only be worn
as a cover to a turban or 
beneath a helmet.
The Hijab shall not cover 
names, numbers or logos 
permitted on the playing uniform.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.48 19.49CRICKET EQUIPMENT
CRICKET BATCRICKET EQUIPMENT
WICKET KEEPER GLOVES
NOTE
COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
• Any visible stitching, ventilation, stencil 
effect or other design aspect of the 
glove which is in the shape or form of 
the	Manufacturer’s	Identification	will	
be considered as the Manufacturer’s 
Identification	permitted	in	the	diagram.• No visible logos permitted other than 
those	identified	in	the	diagram.9 inchesAny number and size of Manufacturer’s 
Identification and Design Feature is 
permitted anywhere on the back of the 
bat provided it does not exceed 50% 
of the total surface area.
One Player’s Bat Logo 
is permitted on the back 
of the bat 10 sq inches 
(64.5cm²) with no single 
dimension smaller than 
1-inch (2.54cm).
Any number and size of Manufacturer’s 
Identification and Design Feature is 
permitted but only within the top 9 inches 
of the front of the bat, measured from the 
centre of the top of the face.
Two sets of player’s initials are permitted. 
One set is permitted anywhere on the back of the bat. 
One set is permitted anywhere within the top 10 inches 
of the face of the bat. Such initials shall not be more than 
2cm (0.78 inches) in height.FRONT
BACKAny number of 
Manufacturer’s 
Identification and/or 
Design Feature 
permitted on the 
edge of the bat 
but only within 
the top 9 inches.Two Manufacturer’s Identifications 
on the back of the each glove.
1 x 6 sq inches (38.71cm²)
1 x 2 sq inches (12.9cm²).CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.50 19.51CRICKET EQUIPMENT
BATTING GLOVESCRICKET EQUIPMENT
HELMET
NOTE
COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
•	 Test	Matches	–	more	than	50%	of	the 	
protective area of the glove must be white.
•	 ODIs	and	T20Is	–	more	than	50%	of	the	
protective area of the glove must be 
white, or the same colour as the base 
colour of the relevant team’s playing shirt.• No visible logos permitted other than 
those	identified	in	the	diagram.NOTE
TYPE COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
• While the wearing of 
helmets is not mandatory 
in international cricket, 
effective from 1st 
January 2017 all helmets 
worn when batting in 
international cricket must 
be	certified	to	BS7928:2013.In all formats of the game:
• Helmets shall be one  
plain colour. 
• The colour of the  
helmet shall be uniform 
to all members of the 
same team.• No visible logos 
permitted other than 
those	identified	in	 
the diagram.One Manufacturer’s Identification
2sq inches (12.9cm²).Two Manufacturer’s Identifications
on the back of each glove.
No restrictions on position. 
2sq inches (12.9cm²).
Design Feature permitted
on the wristband and on
the back of the glove. 
No restriction on number, 
size or position.Manufacturer’s Identification
on the back of the helmet
2 sq inches (12.9cm²).Manufacturer’s Identification
on the top of each earpiece
or the top of both sides of the grid
2 sq inches (12.9cm²).National Logo
10 sq inches (64.5cm²).FRONT
BACKCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.52 19.53CRICKET EQUIPMENT
WICKET KEEPER PADSCRICKET EQUIPMENT
BATTING PADS
NOTENOTE
TEST MATCHES ODIs AND T20Is
• Pads shall be plain white save that the 
straps may be in the house colours of  
the Manufacturer.
• Coloured piping shall be permitted below 
the ankle strap of the pad only.
• Design Feature shall be white only. • Pads shall be plain coloured other than 
white or any light colour which is likely 
to make the sighting of the white ball 
difficult,	the	decision	of	the	ICC	Match	
Referee	being	final.	The	straps	may	be	in	
the house colours of the Manufacturer.
• Design Feature shall be the same colour 
as the colour of the pad.
• The colour of the pads must be properly 
maintained. Discoloured or faded pads 
will not be permitted.
• Clads are permitted. A Clad is a coloured 
cover that goes over a white pad. When 
used, the Clad logo can replace the 
existing	Manufacturer’s	Identification	on	
the front of the pad. In such cases, the 
existing	Manufacturer’s	Identification	on	
the inside top of the pad and the pad 
straps are still permitted to be displayed.TEST MATCHES ODIs AND T20Is
• Pads shall be plain white save that the 
straps may be in the house colours of  
the manufacturer.
• Coloured piping shall be permitted below 
the ankle strap of the pad only. 
• Design features shall be white only. • Pads shall be plain coloured other than 
white or any light colour which is likely 
to make the sighting of the white ball 
difficult,	the	decision	of	the	ICC	Match	
Referee	being	final.	The	straps	may	be	in	
the house colours of the Manufacturer.
• Design features shall be the same colour  
of the pad. 
• The colour of the pads shall be uniform  
to all members of the same team. 
• The colour of the pads must be properly 
maintained. Discoloured or faded pads  
will not be permitted.
• Clads are permitted. A Clad is a coloured 
cover that goes over a white pad. When 
used, the Clad logo can replace the 
existing	Manufacturer’s	Identification	on	
the front of the pad. In such cases, the 
existing	Manufacturer’s	Identification	on	
the inside top of the pad and the pad 
straps are still permitted to be displayed.One Manufacturer’s Identification 
in 1 of 2 positions on the front of pad 
4 sq inches (25.81cm²).
Design Feature 
is permitted 
on the front of 
the pad.
No restriction on 
the number, 
size or position.One Manufacturer’s 
Identification inside top of pad 
no size restriction.
One Manufacturer’s 
Identification 
on one of the 
pad straps 
1 of 2 positions 
4 sq inches 
(25.81cm2).FRONT BACKOne Manufacturer’s 
Identification inside top of pad 
no size restriction.
One 
Manufacturer’s 
Identification 
1 of 3 positions 
on one of the 
pad straps
4 sq inches 
(25.81cm2).BACK
One Manufacturer’s 
Identification in 
1 of 3 positions 
on the front of 
pad 4 sq inches 
(25.81cm2).Design Feature is permitted on the front
of the pad. No restriction on the number, 
size or position same colour as the pad.
(see note)
FRONTCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.54 19.55CRICKET EQUIPMENT
SHOES AND BOOTSCRICKET EQUIPMENT
SUN GLASSES
NOTE
TEST MATCHES ODIs AND T20Is
• Minimum of 70% white inclusive of 
tongue and laces. No restriction in colour 
for remaining 30%. • Minimum of 70% white inclusive of 
tongue and laces. No restriction in colour 
for remaining 30%. Alternatively, the 
shoe/boot may be in the same colour as 
the playing kit.NOTE
COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
• No restrictions on colour save that 
sunglasses strap/band must be of  
a single colour.• No visible logos permitted other than 
those	identified	in	the	diagram.Any number and size of Manufacturer’s Identification and Design Feature is permitted 
anywhere on the upper provided it does not exceed 30% of the total surface area. 
Any written name, initials or word used as a Manufacturer’s Identification shall not 
exceed 2 square inches (12.9cm2).
One Manufacturer’s Identification may be displayed on the sole. No size restriction.Two Manufacturers Identification are permitted, one on either side of the frame,
not exceeding 0.5 sq inches (3.22cm²).CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.56 19.57CRICKET EQUIPMENT
ARM GUARDSCRICKET EQUIPMENT
FACE PROTECTORS
NOTE
COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
•	 Test	Matches	–	plain	white	save	that	 
the straps may be in the house colours  
of the Manufacturer.
•	 ODIs/T20Is	–	plain	white	or	the	same	
colour as the base colour of the Playing 
shirt. Straps may be in the house colours  
of the Manufacturer.• No visible logos.NOTE
COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
• The face protector shall be one  
plain colour. • No visible logos permitted other than 
those	identified	in	the	diagram.One Manufacturer’s Identification 
is permitted. No restrictions on position.
2 sq inches (12.9cm²).CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.58 19.59CRICKET EQUIPMENT
STUMPSCRICKET EQUIPMENT
THIGH PADS, SHIN PADS  
AND OTHER EQUIPMENT
NOTE
COLOUR AND DESIGN LOGOS
• No restriction on colours save that 
these items must be worn under playing 
clothing and shall not be visible. • No visible logos shall be permitted.Two Manufacturer’s Identifications 
are permitted on each stump-one
on the front and one on the back
not exceeding 2sq inches (12.9cm²). Test Matches: No regulation covering 
 the colour of the stumps.
ODI’s & T20’s: No regulation covering 
 the colour of the stumps 
 save that the bails shall be 
 of a distinguishing colour 
 to that of the stumps.
Logos: The Event Logo and / or the Logo
 of the series or the sponsors
 may be displayed on each 
 of the stumps. No size restriction.
 National Logos are not permitted 
 on the stumps.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.60 19.61APPENDIX 2
DISCIPLINARY PROCESS
ARTICLE 1 – REPORTING AN ALLEGED OFFENCE
1.1 Any one of the following individuals can report an alleged offence under the 
Regulations by lodging a report in the manner described in Article 1.2 below  
(a	‘Report’):
 1.1.1 any Umpire;
 1.1.2 any Referee; or
 1.1.3 any member of the ICC’s Cricket Operations Department.
1.2 A Report must be lodged by way of an e-mail to the ICC’s Senior Cricket 
Operations Manager. All Reports must (a) clearly identify the person lodging 
the Report; (b) identify the relevant International Match in which the breach 
was alleged to have been committed; (c) identify the individual, whether 
that	be	a	player,	team	official	of	Board,	who	is	alleged	to	have	committed	the	
offence; and (d) in the case of non-televised matches, include a photograph 
of the offending clothing or equipment taken during the International Match 
where the breach was alleged to have been committed. In the case of Reports 
lodged by any of the individuals listed in Articles 1.1.1 and 1.1.2, in addition 
to the e-mail, details of the alleged breach shall be included on the Umpire 
or	Match	Referee’s	daily	log	(where	applicable)	filed	with	the	ICC	Cricket	
Operations Department at the end of each day’s play. 
1.3 All Reports must be lodged with the ICC’s Senior Cricket Operations Manager 
within seven (7) days of conclusion of the relevant International Match.
1.4	 Where	 a	player,	team	official	or	Board	is	alleged	to	have	committed	 more	than	
one breach of the Regulations during an International Match (whether arising 
out of the same set of facts or otherwise), then a separate Report should be 
filed	in	accordance	with	this	Article	1	for	each	of	the	breaches	that	are	alleged	
to have been committed.
ARTICLE 2 – NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE
2.1 Where the ICC’s Senior Cricket Operations Manager receives a Report, he/
she must promptly conduct a review to determine whether the player, team 
official	or	Board	named	in	the	Report	has	a	case	to	answer.
2.2 If the initial review of the Report reveals that there is no case to answer, then 
the	ICC’s	Senior	Cricket	Operations	Manager	shall	notify	the	person	who	filed	
the Report of that fact, and the matter shall not proceed any further.
2.3 If the initial review of the Report reveals that there is a case to answer, then 
the ICC’s Senior Cricket Operations Manager shall promptly provide a copy 
of the Report, together with copies of the photographic/video snapshot 
evidence	supporting	the	Report	and	Form	‘CE	Not	1’	(such	documents	
comprising	the	‘Notice of Charge’) to the following individuals:
	 2.3.1	 the	player	or	team	official	named	in	the	Report	(where	relevant);
	 2.3.2	 the	Team	Manager	of	the	relevant	player	or	team	official	named	in	the	
Report (where relevant); and
 2.3.3 the CEO of the Board (or his/her designee) to which the relevant player 
or	team	official	is	affiliated,	 or,	in	the	case	of	a	breach	by	the	Board	itself,	
the CEO of the relevant Board (or his/her designee).2.4	 The	Notice	of	Charge	shall	specify	that	the	player,	team	official	or	relevant	
Board shall have the following options which must be exercised through 
notice to the ICC’s Senior Cricket Operations Manager within seven (7) days of 
receipt	by	the	player,	team	official	or	Board	of	the	Notice	of	Charge:	
 2.4.1 he/she/it may admit the offence charged and accede to the sanction 
proposed in the Notice of Charge (which sanction shall comply with the 
sanctions set out in Article 4), in which case adjudication shall not be 
required and no further action shall be taken; or
 2.4.2 he/she/it may admit the offence charged but dispute the sanction 
proposed in the Notice of Charge, in which case the matter shall 
proceed to adjudication in accordance with Article 3; or
 2.4.3 he/she/it may deny the offence charged, in which case, the matter shall 
proceed to adjudication in accordance with Article 3. 
2.5	 Where	the	player,	team	official	or	Board	either	disputes	the	sanction	
proposed under Article 2.4.2, or denies the offence charged under Article 
2.4.3, his/her/its response to the Notice of Charge must be supported by 
a	written	statement,	in	English,	explaining	why	the	player,	team	official	or	
Board does not admit the offence and/or accept the proposed sanction, and 
any	documentary	evidence	that	the	player,	team	official	or	National	Cricket	
Federation relies on in support.
ARTICLE 3 – THE DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
3.1 Where a matter proceeds to adjudication under Article 2.4.2 or 2.4.3, then 
the	case	shall	be	referred	to	the	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	who	shall	
decide the matter solely on the basis of the Notice of Charge and any 
written	statement	filed	by	the	player,	team	official	or	Board	in	accordance	
with	Article	2.5.	The	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	shall	not	hold	an	oral	
hearing.	However,	should	the	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	consider	that	
further information is necessary to allow him to make his decision, he shall be 
entitled to obtain such further information before making his decision, and 
the	relevant	player,	team	official	or	Board	shall	assist	him	in	this	regard,	where	
requested.	In	considering	the	matter,	the	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	
shall be entitled to consult with the ICC’s General Counsel. 
3.2	 Save	in	exceptional	circumstances,	the	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	shall	
notify	his	written	reasoned	decision,	setting	out:	(a)	the	finding	as	to	whether	
an offence under the Regulations has been committed; (b) the sanction, if 
any, to be imposed (in accordance with Article 4); (c) details of which match 
or matches any suspension is to be applied to; and (d) any right of appeal that 
exists pursuant to Article 5, within seven (7) days of receipt of the response 
to the Notice of Charge. A copy of the decision shall be sent to the CEO of 
the	player	or	team	official’s	Board	(or	his/her	designee)	and	the	ICC’s	Senior	
Cricket Operations Manager.
3.3 Subject only to the rights of appeal under Article 5, the ICC’s General Manager 
–	Cricket	Operations’	decision	shall	be	the	full,	final	and	complete	disposition	
of the matter and will be binding on all parties.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.62 19.63ARTICLE 4 – SANCTIONS
4.1 Where the ICC’s Senior Cricket Operations Manager determines that there is a 
case to answer in accordance with Article 2.1, in issuing the Notice of Charge, 
he/she shall specify (on Form Not 1) the appropriate sanction to be imposed 
on	the	player,	team	official	or	Board.
4.2	 In	addition,	where	a	matter	comes	before	the	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	
in accordance with either Article 2.4.2 or 2.4.3, and he/she determines that an 
offence under these Regulations has been committed, he/she will be required 
to	impose	an	appropriate	sanction	on	the	player,	team	official	or	Board.	
4.3 In order to determine the sanction that is to be imposed in each case, the 
ICC’s	Senior	Cricket	Operations	Manager	or	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	
(as	appropriate)	must	first	consider	whether	the	player,	team	official	or	
National Cricket Federation has previously been found guilty of an offence 
in the same category under the Regulations within a period of twelve (12) 
months prior to the date on which the alleged offence took place. 
NOTE: For example, if a player is found to have breached these Regulations in 
respect of a Commercial Logo, he/she shall only be considered to have committed 
a repeat offence if, within the twelve month period prior to the date of the alleged 
offence, he/she was found guilty of a breach of these Regulations in relation to any 
Commercial Logo. If the previous breach had related, for example, to a Charity Logo, 
it would not count as a repeat offence for the purposes of this Article 4.3.
4.4 Once the ICC’s Senior Cricket Operations Manager or ICC’s General Manager 
–	Cricket	(as	appropriate)	has	established	whether	this	is	a	repeat	offence	
within the relevant twelve month period, then he/she shall go on to take 
into account any other factors that he/she deems relevant and appropriate 
to the mitigation or aggravation of the nature of the offence (including, 
without limitation, the nature and frequency of any previous offences under 
the Regulations) before determining, in accordance with the following table, 
what the appropriate sanction should be.CATEGORY OF 
OFFENCESANCTION – 
FIRST OFFENCESANCTION – 
SECOND 
OFFENCE 
WITHIN 12 
MONTHS SANCTION – 
THIRD OFFENCE 
WITHIN 12 
MONTHSSANCTION –  
FOURTH 
OFFENCES 
WITHIN 12 
MONTHS
PLAYERS
Non-Commercial 
Logo, Charity 
Logo or  
other breachReprimand. The imposition 
of a fine of 25% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a fine of 50% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a fine of 75% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.
Manufacturer’s  
LogoThe imposition 
of a fine of 25% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a fine of 50% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a fine of 100% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a 1 match 
suspension.
Player’s Bat 
Logo (excluding 
Charity Logo)The imposition 
of a fine of 50% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a fine of 75% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a fine of 100% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a 1 match 
suspension.
Commercial Logo The imposition 
of a fine of 50% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a fine of 75% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a fine of 100% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a 1 match 
suspension.
Betting Logo The imposition 
of a fine of 75% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a fine of 100% 
of the applicable 
Match Fee.The imposition 
of a 1 match 
suspension.The imposition 
of a minimum 
2 match 
suspension.
Non-Compliant 
HelmetFirst Warning. Second Warning. The imposition 
of a 1 match 
suspension.The imposition 
of a 2 match 
suspension.
National Cricket Federations
All Categories Warning and/or 
the imposition 
of a fine up to 
a maximum of 
US$25,000.The imposition 
of a fine up to 
a maximum of 
US$25,000.The imposition 
of a fine up to 
a maximum of 
US$25,000.The imposition 
of a fine up to 
a maximum of 
US$25,000.
 NOTE: For the purposes of this Appendix 2, Match Fee means the designated match fee 
(which is to be used for the purposes of calculating sanctions in accordance with Article 4 
of Appendix 2) as set out in Appendix 3 to these Regulations.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.64 19.654.5	 Where	a	player	or	team	official	has	been	suspended	for	a	specific	number	  
of matches, the suspension will be applied in accordance with the  
following principles:
 4.5.1 the ICC’s Senior Cricket Operations Manager or the ICC’s General 
Manager	–	Cricket	(as	appropriate)	shall	have	regard	to	the	player	
or	team	official’s	participation	in	the	various	formats	of	International	
Matches over the previous two years in order to determine (to the best 
of his/her ability) which of the forthcoming International Matches the 
player	or	team	official	is	most	likely	to	participate	in;
 4.5.2 in so far as is reasonably possible, the ICC’s Senior Cricket Operations 
Manager	or	the	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	(as	appropriate)	shall	
apply the suspension to the subsequent International Matches in which 
the	player	or	team	official	is	likely	to	participate	in,	on	a	chronological	
basis immediately following the announcement of the decision;
	 4.5.3	 where	a	player	of	team	official	has	his/her	suspension	applied	to	an 	
International Match that is subsequently cancelled, postponed or otherwise 
abandoned prior to the actual day on which it is scheduled to take place, then 
such suspension must be reallocated to the next subsequent International 
Match	in	which	the	player	or	team	official	is	likely	to	participate	in.	Where 	
an International Match is cancelled, postponed or otherwise abandoned at 
any time on the actual day on which it is scheduled to take place, then the 
suspension will remain allocated to that International Match, irrespective of 
such cancellation, postponement or abandonment.
EXAMPLES OF THE APPLICATION OF SUSPENSION POINTS:
1 Where a player’s playing history suggests that he/she is most 
likely to represent his National Cricket Federation in Test Matches 
only, then the suspension shall be applied to his/her future 
participation in Test Matches only, so that a one match suspension 
would be applied to the Test Match immediately following the 
announcement of the decision, notwithstanding that the National 
Cricket Federation might be participating in intervening One Day 
International Matches and/or Twenty20 International Matches.
2 Where a player’s playing history suggests that he/she is likely to be 
selected to represent his National Cricket Federation in all formats of 
International Matches, then the suspension shall be applied to his/
her future participation in all International Matches in the sequential 
order in which such International Matches take place immediately 
following the announcement of the decision. For example, if a player 
received a two match suspension, and the following chronological 
list	of	potential	playing	fixtures	represented	the	player’s	National 	
Cricket Federation’s upcoming International Matches:
 • Announcement of decision 
	 •	 One-Day	International	Match	– Match A
	 •	 Test	Match	–	Match B
	 •	 Twenty20	International	Match	–	Match C
 the player’s suspension would be applied to Matches A and B, 
and he would be entitled to return to participation in Match C.4.6	 Where	a	fine	is	imposed	against	a	player	or	team	official,	then	such	fine	must	
be	paid:	(a)	by	the	player	or	team	official	(and	not	any	third	party,	including	
a	Board);	(b)	to	the	player	or	team	official’s	Board	(for	onward	transmission	
to the ICC) within one calendar month of receipt of the decision imposing 
the	fine.	However,	the	ICC	will	consider	any	request	from	any	player	or	team	
official	to	make	payment	of	such	fines	over	a	prolonged	period	of	time	on	
the	grounds	of	financial	hardship.	Should	any	fine	(or	agreed	part-payment	or	
instalment thereof) not be paid to the relevant Board within such deadline or 
by	the	time	of	the	next	agreed	payment	date,	the	player	or	team	official	may	
not play, coach or otherwise be involved in any capacity in any International 
Match	until	such	payment	has	been	satisfied	in	full.
4.7	 Where	a	player	or	team	official	has	had	a	suspension	imposed	against	him/
her, he/she may not play, coach or otherwise participate or be involved in any 
capacity in the International Match(es) which are covered by the application 
of his suspension as determined in accordance with Article 4.5.
NOTE: For the avoidance of any doubt, a player who has had a suspension imposed 
against him/her shall not, during the International Matches which are covered by 
his/her suspension:
a) be nominated as, or carry out any of the duties or responsibilities of, a 
substitute	fielder;	or
b) enter any part of the playing area (which shall include, for the avoidance of 
doubt,	the	field	of	play	and	the	area	between	the	boundary	and	perimeter 	
boards) at any time, including during any scheduled or unscheduled breaks  
in play.
In	addition,	a	team	official	so	sanctioned	shall	not	be	permitted	to	enter	the 	
player’s dressing room (including the viewing areas) during any International 
Match covered by his suspension. Players so sanctioned, however, will be 
permitted to enter the players’ dressing room provided that the players’ dressing 
room (or any part thereof) for the relevant International Match is not within the 
player area described in (b) above (for example, no such Player shall be permitted 
access	to	an	on-field	‘dug-out’).
Finally,	any	player	or	team	official	so	sanctioned	shall	not	be	prevented	from 	
attending any post-match ceremonies or presentations taking place anywhere on 
the	field	of	play	or	otherwise	following	the	conclusion	of	an	International	Match 	
covered by his/her suspension.
4.8	 Once	any	suspension	has	expired,	the	player	or	team	official	will	automatically	
become re-eligible to participate in International Matches provided that he/
she has paid, in full, all amounts forfeited under these Regulations, including 
any	fines	that	may	have	been	imposed	against	him/her.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONSCLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 19 19
19.66 19.67ARTICLE 5 – APPEALS
5.1	 Appeals	from	decisions	in	relation	to	which	a	reprimand	and/or	fine	is	imposed
 5.1.1 Decisions made under these Regulations by the ICC’s General Manager 
–	Cricket	in	relation	to	which	a	reprimand	and/or	fine	is	imposed	shall	be	
non-appealable	and	shall	remain	the	full	and	final	decision	in	relation	to	
the matter.
5.2 Appeals from decisions in relation to which a suspension is imposed
	 5.2.1	 Decisions	made	by	the	ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	in	relation	to	
which a suspension is imposed may be challenged solely by appeal as 
set out in this Article 5.2. Such decision shall remain in effect while under 
appeal	unless	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer	properly	convened	to	
hear the appeal orders otherwise.
 5.2.2 The only parties who may appeal a decision of this nature shall be  
the	player,	team	official	or	Board	found	guilty	of	an	offence	under	  
these Regulations.
 5.2.3 Any notice to appeal under this Article must be lodged with the ICC’s 
Chief	Executive	Officer	(with	a	copy	to	the	ICC’s	General	Counsel)	within 	
fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written decision of the ICC’s General 
Manager	–	Cricket	(the	‘Notice of Appeal’). In cases where a player or 
team	official	files	a	Notice	of	Appeal,	a	copy	of	such	notice	will	also 	
be provided to the CEO of the National Cricket Federation (or his/her 
designee)	to	which	the	player	or	team	official	is	affiliated.	The	Notice 	
of Appeal shall include a written statement setting out, in detail, the 
grounds for appeal of the decision, together with any documents that the 
player,	team	official	or	Board	wishes	to	rely	on	in	support	of	the	appeal. 	
	 5.2.4	 Thereafter,	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer	shall	decide	the	matter	
solely on the basis of the Notice of Appeal and supporting documents, 
and	the	original	Notice	of	Charge.	The	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer	shall	
not hold an oral hearing. However, should the ICC’s Chief Executive 
Officer	consider	that	further	information	is	necessary	to	allow	him	to	
make his decision, he shall be entitled to obtain such further information 
before	making	his	decision,	and	the	relevant	player,	team	official	or	
Board shall assist him in that regard, where requested. In considering the 
matter,	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer	shall	be	entitled	to	consult	with	
the ICC’s General Counsel. 
	 5.2.5	 Save	in	exceptional	circumstances,	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer	
shall	notify	his	written	reasoned	decision,	setting	out:	(a)	the	finding	
as to whether an offence under the Regulations has been committed; 
(b) the sanction, if any, to be imposed (in accordance Article 4); and 
(c) details of which match or matches any suspension is to be applied 
to, within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the receipt of the Notice of 
Appeal. A copy of the decision shall be sent to the CEO of the player or 
team	official’s	Board	(or	his/her	designee)	and	the	ICC’s	Senior	Cricket	
Operations Manager.
	 5.2.6	 Any	decision	made	by	the	ICC’s	Chief	Executive	Officer	under	this	Article	
5.2	shall	be	the	full,	final	and	complete	disposition	of	the	matter	and	will	
be binding on all parties.5.3 No appeal in relation to an accepted sanction
	 5.3.1	 For	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	where	a	player,	team	official	or	Board	
admits	the	offence	charged	and	accedes	to	the	sanction	specified	in	the	
Notice of Charge in accordance with the procedure described in Article 
2.4.1,	the	player,	team	official	or	Board	waives	his/her/its	right	to	any	
appeal against the imposition of such a sanction.
ARTICLE 6 – RECOGNITION OF DECISIONS
6.1	 Any	final	adjudications	under	these	Regulations	shall	be	recognised	and	
respected by the ICC and its Member Boards automatically upon receipt of 
notice of the same, without the need for any further formality. Each of the  
ICC and its Member Boards shall take all steps legally available to it to enforce 
and give effect to such decisions. 
6.2 It shall be a condition of membership of the ICC that all National Cricket 
Federations shall comply with the Regulations. 
ARTICLE 7 – GOVERNING LAW
7.1 These Regulations are governed by and shall be construed in accordance 
with English law. Strictly without prejudice to the arbitration provisions of 
Articles 3 and 5 of the Regulations, disputes relating to the Regulations shall 
be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT 
RULES AND REGULATIONS19
19.68APPENDIX 3
MATCH FEES
Unless otherwise agreed in advance of an International Match or ICC Event, for  
the purposes of any sanctions that are to be applied pursuant to these Regulations, 
the following designated Match Fees shall apply: 
TYPE OF INTERNATIONAL MATCH DESIGNATED MATCH FEE
Any men’s Test Match, One Day International 
Match or Twenty20 International Matches. A	country-specific	amount	which	is	to	be	
determined by the ICC’s Chief Executive’s 
Committee in consultation with the relevant 
National Cricket Federations.
All other International Matches. No Match Fee will be applied. Accordingly, 
neither the ICC’s Senior Cricket Operations 
Manager	or	the	ICC’s	General	Manager	– 	
Cricket shall have jurisdiction under these 
Regulations	to	impose	any	financial	sanctions 	
against any Player or Player Support 
Personnel for a breach of these Regulations. 
However the remaining range of permissible 
sanctions (set out in the tables in Article 4.4 
of Appendix 2) shall be available to ICC’s 
Senior Cricket Operations Manager or the 
ICC’s	General	Manager	–	Cricket	in	full. 	
For the avoidance of doubt, the designated Match Fee to be applied for the purposes 
of an offence committed by a Player Support Personnel shall be the same as that which 
would be applied to a Player from the same National Cricket Federation participating in 
the same International Match.
20.1ARTICLE 1 – INTRODUCTION
 1.1 The ICC is the international federation responsible for the global 
governance of the sport of cricket. It is also the organiser of various 
international cricket events (the ICC Events). 
 1.2 The ICC recognises that ensuring the welfare of all those participating 
in cricket is important in its own right, but it is also vital for the good 
reputation of cricket and its long-term health and vitality at all levels. 
Accordingly, the ICC expects all National Cricket Federations and 
Participants to maintain appropriate standards and behaviour in relation 
to their welfare and that of other people around them at all times. 
 1.3 The core aim of these ICC Safeguarding Regulations is to ensure the 
welfare of Protected Persons. These ICC Safeguarding Regulations 
establish a framework through which the ICC may address matters 
concerning the harm, or possibility of harm, to Protected Persons in 
connection with ICC Events. 
 1.4 Words in italicised text in these ICC Safeguarding Regulations are 
defined	terms.	Their	respective	definitions	are	set	out	in	Appendix	1.
ARTICLE 2 – SCOPE AND APPLICATION
 2.1 These ICC Safeguarding Regulations apply to Participants. For these 
purposes, a “Participant” is: 
 2.1.1 any cricketer who is selected as part of a team or squad to 
participate in an ICC Event, or who otherwise participates in an 
ICC Event; and/or
	 2.1.2	 any	coach,	trainer,	manager,	selector,	official,	doctor,	
physiotherapist or any other person who is employed by, 
represents	or	is	otherwise	affiliated	to	team	or	squad	that	
participates in an ICC Event; and/or
	 2.1.3	 any	ICC	Official,	Match	Referee,	Pitch	Curator,	Player	Agent,	
Umpire or Umpire Support Personnel involved in an ICC Event; 
and/or
	 2.1.4	 any	other	individual	who	participates	in	any	official	capacity,	
on behalf of the ICC, a National Cricket Federation or ICC Event 
organising committee, during the course of an ICC Event; and/or
 2.1.5 any other person who from time to time is engaged directly or 
indirectly in any activity on behalf of the ICC, a National Cricket 
Federation or ICC Event organising committee, in relation to the 
organisation or administration of an ICC Event.
 2.2 Each Participant is automatically bound by these ICC Safeguarding 
Regulations as soon as he/she becomes a Participant. From that point, 
he/she shall be deemed to have agreed:
 2.2.1 not to engage in Prohibited Conduct in connection with ICC Events;
 2.2.2 that it is his/her personal responsibility to familiarise him/
herself with all of the requirements of these ICC Safeguarding 
Regulations, and to comply with those requirements (where 
applicable);ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS
 20
ICC SAFEGUARDING 
REGULATIONS
ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS 20 20
20.2 20.3 2.2.3 to submit to the jurisdiction of the ICC to investigate apparent or 
suspected Prohibited Conduct;
 2.2.4 to submit to the jurisdiction of the Safeguarding Chairperson 
and/or Safeguarding Panel convened under these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations to hear and determine, (a) any 
allegation that a Participant has engaged in Prohibited Conduct; 
and (b) any related issue (e.g., any challenge to the validity of 
the charges or to the jurisdiction of the ICC or Safeguarding 
Chairperson or Safeguarding Panel, as applicable);
 2.2.5 to submit to the jurisdiction of any Safeguarding Appeal Panel 
to determine appeals made pursuant to these ICC Safeguarding 
Regulations;
 2.2.6 not to bring any proceedings in any court or other forum that are 
inconsistent with the foregoing submissions to the jurisdiction 
of the Safeguarding Chairperson, Safeguarding Panels or 
Safeguarding Appeal Panels; and
 2.2.7 to waive and forfeit any rights, defences and privileges 
provided by any law in any jurisdiction to withhold, or reject the 
provision of, information requested by the ICC pursuant to any 
investigation under these ICC Safeguarding Regulations. 
  NOTE: 
  For the avoidance of doubt, the ICC’s jurisdiction to take action 
against a Participant under these ICC Safeguarding Regulations is 
limited to Prohibited Conduct taking place in connection with an 
ICC Event.
  Whether or not a Participant’s conduct takes place - or he/she 
poses a risk of harm (in the context of Article 3.1, below) - in 
connection with an ICC Event, will inevitably involve a fact-
specific	analysis.	However,	without	limitation	to	the	generality	
of the foregoing, the closer in time conduct takes place to the 
duration of an ICC Event (obviously during, but also before and 
after) the more likely it is that such conduct will be considered to 
take	place	‘in	connection’	with	an	ICC	Event.	By	way	of	general	
proposition, for Participants who are present in the host territory 
for the purposes of their participation or other involvement in 
an ICC Event, conduct that takes place in the period beginning 
7	(seven)	days	prior	to	the	first	match	of	an	ICC	Event	and	
ending at the time of the Participant’s departure from the host 
territory,	will	constitute	conduct	taking	place	‘in	connection’	
with an ICC Event. However, for Participants who are involved 
with the organisation or administration of an ICC Event, or when 
considering whether or not a Participant poses a risk of harm, a 
longer	period	of	time	may	be	considered	to	be	‘in	connection’	
with an ICC Event.  2.3 These ICC Safeguarding Regulations are not criminal laws but rather 
disciplinary rules of professional conduct for those involved in the 
sport of cricket. However, Prohibited Conduct may also be a criminal 
offence and/or a breach of other applicable laws or regulations. These 
ICC Safeguarding Regulations are intended to supplement such laws 
and regulations. They are not intended, and should not be interpreted, 
construed or applied, to prejudice or undermine in any way the 
application of such laws and regulations. Participants must comply 
with all applicable laws and regulations at all times. Where a Participant 
who is an employee or contractor of the ICC breaches these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations, the ICC may choose to pursue its remedies 
against him/her under employment law and/or contract law and/or 
under	these	ICC	Safeguarding	Regulations,	as	it	sees	fit.
 2.4 For the avoidance of doubt, following the completion of an ICC Event, 
the ICC shall continue to have jurisdiction over Participants under these 
ICC Safeguarding Regulations in respect of any matters that took place 
in connection with an ICC Event. 
ARTICLE 3 – PROHIBITED CONDUCT 
Any act or omission that would amount to a breach of Articles 3.1 - 3.4 of these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations shall constitute “Prohibited Conduct”. 
 3.1 No Participant may (i) engage, or attempt or threaten to engage, in 
conduct that directly or indirectly harms the physical and/or mental 
welfare and/or safety of one or more Protected Persons, and/or (ii) 
pose a risk of harm to the physical and/or mental welfare and/or safety 
of one or more Protected Persons. Without limitation, Appendix 2 to 
these ICC Safeguarding Regulations sets out some conduct that might 
constitute	‘harm’	for	these	purposes.	
  3.2 All Participants subject to an ICC investigation under these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations, or who may otherwise be asked to assist with 
any such investigation, shall cooperate, without delay, with the ICC’s 
investigation,	unless	there	is	compelling	justification	as	to	why	he/she	is	
unable or unwilling to cooperate with the ICC’s investigation.
 3.3 No Participant may treat any other Participant or other person in a 
negative and/or detrimental manner on the ground or belief that such 
Participant or other person has reported a concern or matter to the ICC 
and/or assisted the ICC in any manner in relation to any investigation or 
proceedings brought under these ICC Safeguarding Regulations.
 3.4 No Participant may make a malicious report to the ICC, or otherwise act 
in bad faith in relation to matters covered by these ICC Safeguarding 
Regulations. ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS 20 20
20.4 20.5ARTICLE 4 – REPORTING AND THE ICC’S POWERS OF INVESTIGATION
NOTE: 
The ICC wants to be presented with any information, from any source, where there 
is reason to believe that a Participant has harmed or presents a risk of harm to 
one or more Protected Persons (especially, although not exclusively, in relation to 
Young Persons and Adults at Risk). 
Absent	any	specific	duty	on	the	person	making	a	report	outside	of	these	ICC	
Safeguarding Regulations (for example, any duty owed by a National Cricket 
Federation to its participants or as an employer), it is not the responsibility of those 
reporting concerns to the ICC to determine if a Protected Person has been harmed 
or are otherwise at risk of harm. All concerns should be reported directly to the ICC, 
in addition to any other appropriate bodies (for example the local police if criminal 
activity is suspected or in an emergency). 
The ICC will support those who wish to make a report, and provide any guidance 
that may be necessary in relation to the making of a report. In addition to any 
reporting	processes	that	may	from	time	to	time	be	publicised	for	specific	ICC	
Events,	reports	can	be	made	to	the	ICC	in	confidence	at	any	time	either:	
-  via email to safeguarding@icc-cricket.com; or 
-  by telephone on +971 4 382 8800.
 4.1 Upon receipt of information (from any source) that gives the ICC 
reasonable ground(s) to suspect that a Participant might have engaged 
in Prohibited Conduct, the ICC will be entitled to investigate the matter.
 4.2 In relation to any investigation commenced under these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations, the ICC may:
 4.2.1 investigate the matter itself; and/or
 4.2.2 appoint another person or others, including an independent 
safeguarding expert (or experts), to assist in relation to its 
investigation or investigate the matter on the ICC’s behalf.
 4.3 In relation to any investigation commenced under these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations, the ICC (or its appointee) may require any 
Participant (and request other parties) to:
 4.3.1 attend to answer and provide information and/or answer 
questions by way of interview;
 4.3.2 produce documents, information or other material in whatever 
form held;
	 4.3.3	 undertake	a	risk	assessment	by	a	suitably	qualified	person	
appointed by the ICC (or its appointee) in such form as the ICC (or 
its appointee), at its discretion, considers appropriate; and/or
 4.3.4 cooperate in any other manner that might be necessary or 
desirable for the purposes of the investigation.ARTICLE 5 – PROVISIONAL SUSPENSION 
 5.1 At any point in time where the ICC General Counsel has reasonable 
ground(s) to suspect that a Participant has engaged in Prohibited 
Conduct, the ICC General Counsel may Provisionally Suspend that 
Participant, for such duration, and on such terms and conditions as he/
she	considers	appropriate,	pending	final	determination	of	the	matter.
 5.2 The ICC General Counsel will impose a Provisional Suspension only in 
cases where he/she considers it to be reasonable and proportionate, 
and taking into account the aims and objectives of these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations. Prior to issuing a Provisional Suspension,  
the ICC General Counsel will consider the following matters:
 5.2.1 whether any Protected Person is or may be at risk of harm;
 5.2.2 the prospect of any charge(s) under these ICC Safeguarding 
Regulations being upheld;
 5.2.3 the seriousness of the suspected Prohibited Conduct;
 5.2.4 whether a Provisional Suspension is necessary or desirable to 
allow the conduct of any investigation by the ICC, National 
Cricket Federation, the police or any other relevant authority to 
proceed unimpeded; 
 5.2.5 the opinion of any independent safeguarding expert (should the 
ICC General Counsel choose to seek such an opinion); and
 5.2.6 any other circumstances that might be relevant to the  
individual case.   
 5.3 If the ICC General Counsel issues a Provisional Suspension, the Participant 
will	be	promptly	notified	by	the	ICC	General	Counsel.	The	notification 	
should, unless impracticable for any reason (such as prejudice to an 
investigation or because of the risk of harm to any person):
 5.3.1 set out the reasons why the Provisional Suspension has been 
imposed;
 5.3.2 detail the scope of the Provisional Suspension, i.e., which 
activities the Participant is prohibited from undertaking (which 
may be all or some of those activities set out at Article 5.6); and
 5.3.3 advise that the Participant may apply to have the Provisional 
Suspension lifted or varied in accordance with the process 
described in Article 8.13 et seq.
 5.4 A Participant subject to a Provisional Suspension may apply to have 
it lifted or varied. Such an application shall be made in writing and 
submitted to the ICC General Counsel for the consideration of the 
Safeguarding Chairperson, to be determined in accordance with Article 
8.13 et seq. 
 5.5	 A	Provisional	Suspension	will	otherwise	remain	in	force	pending	final	
determination of the matter. ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS 20 20
20.6 20.7 5.6 Unless the terms of a Provisional Suspension are varied in any way, 
while Provisionally Suspended a Participant may not play, coach, attend, 
officiate	or	otherwise	participate	or	be	involved	in	any	capacity	in	any	
cricket match, event or activity (other than authorised education or 
rehabilitation programmes) that is authorised, organised, sanctioned, 
recognised or supported in any way by the ICC, a National Cricket 
Federation, or any member under the jurisdiction of a National Cricket 
Federation, or receive accreditation to provide media or other services 
at	any	official	venue	or	cricket	match.
 5.7 The ICC may publish and/or share information relating to Provisional 
Suspensions	on	a	‘need	to	know’	basis	with	the	CEO	and/or	any	other	
appropriate person of any relevant National Cricket Federation and 
other relevant third parties, in such form and manner, and to such 
extent, as it deems necessary for the purposes of enforcement and/or 
compliance and having due regard for the aims and objectives of these 
ICC Safeguarding Regulations at all times.
 5.8 National Cricket Federations shall take all reasonable steps within their 
powers to give effect to Provisional Suspensions to the extent that they 
have the jurisdiction, power or ability to do so. 
ARTICLE 6 – NOTICE OF CHARGE AND REFERRALS  
TO THE SAFEGUARDING CHAIRPERSON
 6.1 If, at the conclusion of an investigation commenced under these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations, the ICC General Counsel concludes that the 
Participant under investigation has a case to answer for Prohibited 
Conduct, the ICC General Counsel will send a written notice of charge 
(“Notice of Charge”) to that Participant, copied to the CEO of the 
Participant’s National Cricket Federation:
	 6.1.1	 confirming	that	a	charge(s)	is	(are)	being	issued	against	the	
Participant under these ICC Safeguarding Regulations and that 
the matter is being referred to the Safeguarding Chairperson; 
 6.1.2 detailing the facts and evidence on which the charge(s) is  
(are) based; 
 6.1.3 detailing the terms and conditions of any Provisional Suspension 
(if different to or not already imposed under Article 5); 
 6.1.4 setting out the sanction and/or risk management measure(s) that 
the ICC General Counsel considers appropriate in the event that 
the charge(s) is (are) admitted or upheld; and
 6.1.5 requiring the Participant’s written response to the charge(s) 
within 14 (fourteen) days.
 6.2 A Participant may respond to a Notice of Charge in one of the  
following ways:
 6.2.1 to admit the charge(s) and accede to the sanction and/or risk 
management	measure(s)	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge;
 6.2.2 to admit the charge(s), but indicate an intention to dispute 
and/or seek to mitigate the proposed sanction and/or risk 
management	measure(s)	specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge	by	
way of hearing in accordance with Article 8; or 6.2.3 to deny the charge(s) and to have the charge(s) and (if the 
charge(s) is (are) upheld) any appropriate sanction and/or risk 
management measure(s) determined at a hearing in accordance 
with Article 8.
 6.3 In the event that a Notice of Charge is sent to a Participant who was 
under the age of 18 years when the relevant Prohibited Conduct is 
alleged to have occurred, the ICC General Counsel may send a copy of 
the Notice of Charge to the Participant’s parent/legal guardian/carer in 
addition to the Participant’s National Cricket Federation.
 6.4 Following receipt of a response to a Notice of Charge in accordance 
with Article 6.2.2, the ICC General Counsel may, if he/she deems 
appropriate, enquire with the Participant as to whether the Participant 
wishes to have the matter referred to the Safeguarding Chairperson 
(acting alone) to determine an appropriate sanction and/or risk 
management measure(s) (if any) without the need for a hearing. The 
Participant will be required to respond to the ICC General Counsel 
within 7 (seven) days of the enquiry being sent. In the event that no 
response to the enquiry is received by the ICC General Counsel within 
the timeframe, or by any extended timeline granted by the ICC General 
Counsel, the matter will proceed to be determined in accordance 
with Article 8. For the avoidance of doubt, in cases where the ICC 
General Counsel does not consider a matter appropriate for disposal as 
envisaged by this Article 6.4, the matter will proceed in accordance with 
Articles 6.6 and 8.
 6.5 Where the ICC General Counsel and a Participant reach agreement 
in accordance with Article 6.4, the Safeguarding Chairperson shall 
give each party an opportunity to make written submissions on the 
appropriate sanction and/or risk management measure(s), and for each 
party to comment on the other’s submissions, prior to issuing a written, 
reasoned decision. In such cases, the ICC and Participant will retain the 
right of appeal under Article 10, save that the appeal shall be limited to a 
review of the sanction and/or risk management measure(s) imposed by 
the Safeguarding Chairperson.
 6.6 Following receipt of a response to a Notice of Charge under Article 6.2.2 
or 6.2.3, where the Participant indicates that he/she wants the matter 
to be determined at a hearing in accordance with Article 8 (and there 
is no agreement between the Participant and ICC General Counsel 
as contemplated by Article 6.4), the ICC General Counsel will request 
that the Safeguarding Chairperson convene a Safeguarding Panel to 
determine the matters set out in the Notice of Charge. 
 6.7 In the event that no response to the Notice of Charge is received from 
the Participant within 14 (fourteen) days, or by any extended timeline 
that the ICC’s General Counsel deems appropriate, the Participant will 
be deemed to have:
	 6.7.1	 admitted	the	charge(s)	as	specified	in	the	Notice	of	
Charge; 
 6.7.2 waived his/her entitlement to a hearing; and 
 6.7.3 acceded to the sanction and/or risk management measure(s) 
specified	in	the	Notice	of	Charge.ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS 20 20
20.8 20.9ARTICLE 7 – ICC SAFEGUARDING GROUP
 7.1 The ICC will establish a group of individuals who individually shall be 
eligible to sit on any Safeguarding Panel. The group shall consist of 
an independent Chairperson appointed by the ICC (“ Safeguarding 
Chairperson”) and no fewer than eight other independent safeguarding 
experts, who will be appointed by the Safeguarding Chairperson, and 
whose individual and collective experience may be drawn from legal, 
policing, social work, offender management and/or sport administration 
backgrounds (collectively, the “Safeguarding Group”). The Safeguarding 
Chairperson will appoint one member of the Safeguarding Group as his/
her deputy Chairperson (“Deputy Safeguarding Chairperson”). 
 7.2 The primary purpose of the Safeguarding Group and, as convened, 
the Safeguarding Panel, will be to consider referrals made by the ICC 
General Counsel under Article 6 in accordance with Article 8, but it may 
also	fulfil	such	other	relevant	responsibilities	as	the	ICC	may	specify	
from time to time.
 7.3 The ICC will provide administrative and secretarial support to the 
Safeguarding Group and any Safeguarding Panel convened from time to 
time, or otherwise arrange for the provision of such support.
ARTICLE 8 – CONDUCT OF PROCEEDINGS 
 Appointment of Safeguarding Panels
 8.1 Any matter referred to the Safeguarding Chairperson, unless determined 
in accordance with Article 6.5, shall be determined by a panel consisting 
of three members of the Safeguarding Group, one acting as Chair 
(whom	shall	be	a	legally	qualified	member	of	the	Safeguarding	Group),	
each of whom shall be appointed by the Safeguarding Chairperson 
(“Safeguarding Panel”). For the avoidance of doubt, the Safeguarding 
Chairperson may appoint himself/herself to any Safeguarding Panel, 
but may not appoint himself/herself and the Deputy Safeguarding 
Chairperson to the same Safeguarding Panel. 
 8.2 The functions of Safeguarding Panels are:
 8.2.1 to determine any referral made by the ICC General Counsel under 
Article 6;
 8.2.2 to determine any other matter that the ICC General Counsel 
or the Safeguarding Chairperson may reasonably refer to a 
Safeguarding Panel. 
 8.3 The Safeguarding Chairperson shall notify both the ICC General Counsel 
and the Participant of the identity of the Safeguarding Panel that will 
hear and determine the matter. 
 8.4 If any member of a Safeguarding Panel is for any reason unable, 
unwilling	or	unfit	to	continue	to	serve	on	a	Safeguarding	Panel,	the	
Safeguarding Chairperson shall revoke that member’s appointment and 
appoint an alternative member from the Safeguarding Group. If the 
Safeguarding	Chairperson	is	for	any	reason	unable,	unwilling	or	unfit	to	
continue to serve, the Deputy Safeguarding Chairperson will take over 
the role of Safeguarding Chairperson. 8.5 Where a ruling is required in relation to any urgent matter before a 
Safeguarding Panel has been convened, the Safeguarding Chairperson 
shall determine that matter alone or he/she may refer that matter to a 
Safeguarding Panel (once convened).
 8.6 Where necessary or desirable for the effective conduct of matters 
arising under these ICC Safeguarding Regulations, the Safeguarding 
Chairperson may delegate all or some of his/her function(s) to the 
Deputy Safeguarding Chairperson.
 Conduct of proceedings
 8.7 Subject to the discretion of the person appointed as Chair of a 
Safeguarding Panel to order otherwise for good cause shown by either 
party (for example, having due regard to the seriousness of the alleged 
offence, where the alleged offence took place, the costs of attending 
any hearing), or unless otherwise agreed between the parties, hearings 
before the Safeguarding Panel shall take place at the ICC’s headquarters 
in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
 8.8 The parties shall be entitled, at their own expense and arrangement, 
to be represented by legal counsel or any other representative(s) in all 
proceedings under these ICC Safeguarding Regulations. 
 8.9 As soon as practicable after the formation of the Safeguarding Panel, 
the Chair shall issue directions to the parties in relation to the procedure 
and timetable to be followed in the proceedings. Where the Chair 
deems appropriate, he/she shall hold a directions hearing prior to 
issuing such directions. In particular, the directions shall: 
	 8.9.1		 fix	the	date,	time	and	venue	of	the	hearing;	
 8.9.2 establish a schedule for the exchange of written submissions and 
evidence	in	advance	of	the	hearing,	including	confirmation	by	
the ICC General Counsel of the details of his/her prima facie case, 
confirmation	by	the	Participant	of	the	details	of	his/her	defence	
and/or mitigation, and provision for the ICC General Counsel to 
reply to the Participant’s defence and/or mitigation; and 
 8.9.3 make such order as he/she deems appropriate in relation to the 
manner and form in which any witness or expert evidence should 
be produced, provided that:
 8.9.3.1 a party intending to rely upon the evidence of a witness 
or expert shall serve a statement or report setting out 
the proposed evidence of such witness or expert at a 
date	in	advance	of	the	hearing	that	is	specified	by	the	
Chair; and 
 8.9.3.2 the Safeguarding Panel shall have the power to allow, 
refuse or limit the evidence or appearance at the hearing 
of any witness or expert; and 
 8.9.4 make such order as he/she shall deem appropriate in relation to 
the disclosure of relevant documents and/or other materials in 
the possession or control of either party. ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS 20 20
20.10 20.11 8.10 Where the Safeguarding Panel determines, of its own motion or at the 
request of the parties, to hold a directions hearing, the hearing may be 
held in person or by telephone or video link. The non-attendance of any 
party or his/its representative(s) at the directions hearing, after proper 
notice of the hearing has been provided, shall not prevent the Chair 
from proceeding with the meeting in such party’s absence, whether or 
not any written submissions are made by or on behalf of that party.
 8.11 The Safeguarding Panel shall have all powers necessary for, and 
incidental to, the discharge of its responsibilities under these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations, including (without limitation) the power, 
whether on the application of a party or of its own motion:
 8.11.1 to appoint an expert to assist or advise the Safeguarding Panel on 
a	specific	issue	or	issues,	such	expert	to	be	and	remain	impartial	
and independent of the parties, and the costs of such expert 
to be borne by the parties or in such manner as directed by the 
Safeguarding Panel;
 8.11.2 to expedite or to adjourn, postpone or suspend its proceedings, 
upon such terms as it shall determine, where fairness so requires; 
 8.11.3 to extend or abbreviate any time limit; 
 8.11.4  to conduct such enquiries as appear necessary or expedient in 
order to ascertain the facts; 
 8.11.5  to order any party to make any property, document or other 
material in its possession or under its control available for 
inspection by the Safeguarding Panel and/or any other party; 
 8.11.6  to allow one or more third parties to intervene or be joined in 
the proceedings, to make all appropriate procedural directions in 
relation to such joinder or intervention, and thereafter to make a 
single	final	decision	or	separate	decisions	in	respect	of	all	parties;	
 8.11.7  to award interim relief or other conservatory measures on a 
provisional	basis	subject	to	final	determination;	and	
 8.11.8  to rule on its own jurisdiction.
 8.12 The Chair of the Safeguarding Panel may make procedural rulings on his/
her own.
 Conduct of applications relating to Provisional Suspension
 8.13 All applications in relation to Provisional Suspensions shall be heard 
by the Safeguarding Chairperson or Deputy Safeguarding Chairperson 
acting alone (with all further references to the Safeguarding Chairperson 
in Articles 8.14 to 8.19 to be construed accordingly). For the avoidance  
of doubt, Provisional Suspension applications should not be dealt with 
by any member of the Safeguarding Panel who will determine the 
relevant matter. 
 8.14 The Safeguarding Chairperson may only lift or vary a Provisional 
Suspension imposed by the ICC General Counsel under Article 5 if he/
she	finds	that	the	terms	of	the	Provisional	Suspension	are	unreasonable	
and/or disproportionate.  8.15 Any evidence and submissions of the parties regarding the Provisional 
Suspension will be made in writing unless the Safeguarding Chairperson 
so orders, in person or orally by telephone or video link (but there shall 
otherwise be no right to make oral representations in any manner). 
The Safeguarding Chairperson shall give each party an opportunity to 
comment on the other’s submissions prior to making a decision in relation 
to the lifting, varying or upholding of the Provisional Suspension.
 8.16	 In	 the	event	that	the	Safeguarding	 Chairperson	 finds	that	the	Provisional	
Suspension imposed by the ICC General Counsel is unreasonable and/or 
disproportionate, he/she may lift or vary the Provisional Suspension on 
such terms as he/she considers are reasonable and proportionate. 
 8.17 In the event that the Safeguarding Chairperson upholds the Provisional 
Suspension, he/she may specify under which circumstances and/or after 
which date a further application may be made by the Participant.
 8.18 In considering any Provisional Suspension issued under these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations, the Safeguarding Chairperson may not in the 
ordinary course of events consider any evidence provided by either party 
which the other party has not seen and had a reasonable opportunity to 
respond to. Exceptionally, the ICC General Counsel may however make 
an application for permission to submit evidence that has not been sent 
to the Participant where the ICC General Counsel considers that such 
evidence should not be sent to the Participant because revealing it (or the 
identity of, or anything which might reveal the identity of any individual 
named within such evidence) to the Participant may create a risk of harm 
to any person or persons and/or be unlawful.
 8.19 The Safeguarding Chairperson may, at his/her discretion, allow or reject 
an application under Article 8.18 in whole or in part. In the event that 
the Safeguarding Chairperson allows the evidence to be submitted, he/
she shall consider whether a redacted version of the evidence and/or a 
summary of the evidence can be provided to the Participant.
 Hearings 
 8.20 Save for good cause shown by any party, all hearings shall be conducted 
on	a	private	and	confidential	basis,	attended	only	by	the	parties	to	the	
proceedings and their representatives, as well as, for good cause shown 
and with the approval of the Safeguarding Panel, the representatives of 
any third party with a legitimate interest in the proceedings. 
 8.21  The hearing shall be conducted in English. The Participant shall be 
entitled to use an interpreter. Any party wishing to rely upon documents 
written	in	a	language	other	than	English	shall	produce	certified	English 	
translations of such documents, and shall bear the cost of any translation. 
 8.22  The procedure to be followed at the hearing shall be at the discretion 
of the Chair of the Safeguarding Panel, provided always that the 
hearing is conducted in a fair manner, with a reasonable opportunity 
provided for each party to present evidence (including the right to 
call and to question witnesses), address the Safeguarding Panel and 
present its/his/her case as to both liability and any sanctions and/or risk 
management measures. 
 8.23  At the beginning of the hearing the Chair shall explain the order of the 
proceedings that the Safeguarding Panel proposes to adopt. ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS 20 20
20.12 20.13 8.24 The Safeguarding Panel shall have discretion as to whether to receive 
evidence from witnesses in person, by telephone, by video link or in 
writing, and shall have the right to question a witness and control the 
questioning of witnesses by a party. 
 8.25  Unless the Safeguarding Panel orders that parties may make 
submissions in writing only, all parties should attend hearings in person, 
along with any representative(s). The non-attendance of any party or 
his representative at the hearing, after notice of the hearing has been 
provided in accordance with these ICC Safeguarding Regulations, shall 
not prevent the Safeguarding Panel from proceeding with the hearing in 
his absence, whether or not written submissions have been made by or 
on behalf of that party. 
 Proof and evidence
 8.26  The burden of proof shall be on the ICC General Counsel in all cases 
brought under these ICC Safeguarding Regulations and the standard of 
proof	shall	be	whether	the	Safeguarding	Panel	is	satisfied	on	the	balance 	
of probabilities that the alleged Prohibited Conduct has been committed. 
 8.27 The following rules of proof shall be applicable: 
 8.27.1  The Safeguarding Panel shall not be bound by rules governing 
the admissibility of evidence in judicial or other proceedings. 
Instead, facts may be established by any reliable means, including 
admissions and circumstantial evidence. 
 8.27.2  The Safeguarding Panel shall have discretion to accept any facts 
established by a decision of a court or professional disciplinary 
tribunal of competent jurisdiction that is not the subject of a 
pending appeal as irrebuttable evidence of those facts as against 
the Participant to whom the decision pertained, unless the 
Participant establishes that the decision violated principles of 
natural justice. 
 8.28 The Safeguarding Panel shall determine the manner in which the 
evidence of any Young Person or Adult at Risk is given (if any), bearing 
in mind (i) the objective of achieving a fair hearing, (ii) any possible 
detriment to the welfare of a Young Person or Adult at Risk from giving 
evidence, and (iii) the possible advantages that the evidence will bring 
to determine the truth of the matters at hand. 
 8.29 The Safeguarding Panel shall take appropriate steps to improve the 
quality of the evidence of a Young Person or Adult at Risk and minimise 
the risk of distress in the provision of such evidence. A Young Person 
or Adult at Risk should only ever be questioned directly by any party 
in person if he/she is very clearly capable of doing so and very clearly 
capable of making that decision for himself/herself. 
 Decisions
 8.30 Once the parties have completed their respective submissions, the 
Safeguarding Panel shall retire to determine in private whether it is 
satisfied	on	the	evidence,	to	the	required	standard,	of	the	issues	which	
are before it for determination. The Safeguarding Panel shall make its 
decision unanimously or by majority. No member of the Safeguarding 
Panel may abstain.  8.31 The Safeguarding Panel shall announce its decision in writing, with 
reasons, as soon as possible after the conclusion of the hearing. That 
written decision will set out and explain: 
	 8.31.1	 the	Safeguarding	Panel’s	findings	as	to	whether	any	Prohibited	
Conduct has been committed; and
	 8.31.2		the	Safeguarding	Panel’s	findings	as	to	what	sanction(s)	and/or	
risk management measure(s) are to be imposed (if any).
 8.32 The Safeguarding Panel has the power to make a costs order against 
any party to the hearing in respect of the costs of convening the 
Safeguarding Panel and of staging the hearing and/or in respect of the 
costs (legal, expert, travel, accommodation, translation or otherwise) 
incurred by the parties in relation to the proceedings where it deems it 
appropriate (for example, but without limitation, where it considers that 
such party has acted spuriously, frivolously or otherwise in bad faith). If 
it does not exercise that power, the ICC shall pay the costs of convening 
the Safeguarding Panel and of staging the hearing, and each party shall 
bear its own costs (legal, expert, travel, accommodation, translation  
or otherwise). 
ARTICLE 9 – SANCTIONS AND RISK MANAGEMENT MEASURES
 9.1 Safeguarding Panels may impose such sanction and/or risk management 
measure(s) as they deem appropriate. However, a Safeguarding Panel 
should consider the following range of sanctions and risk management 
measures where a Safeguarding Panel concludes that a Participant has 
engaged in Prohibited Conduct:
 9.1.1 a warning as to future conduct;
 9.1.2 a reprimand;
	 9.1.3	 an	order	requiring	a	Participant	to	undertake	specific	training/
education;
	 9.1.4	 an	order	requiring	a	Participant	to	be	monitored	in	specific	
matters;
 9.1.5 compensation payments to any person affected by the 
Prohibited Conduct of such amount as the Safeguarding Panel 
deems appropriate; 
	 9.1.6	 a	fine	in	such	amount	as	the	Safeguarding	Panel	deems	appropriate;
 9.1.7 a period of Ineligibility of such duration and on such terms and 
conditions as the Safeguarding Panel considers appropriate (up to 
and	including	indefinite	Ineligibility	from	all	cricketing	activities).
 9.2 In determining the appropriate sanction and/or risk management 
measure(s), the Safeguarding Panel shall take into account the 
seriousness of the offence, the context of the particular situation, 
whether the conduct in question was deliberate, reckless, and/
or negligent, and any continuing risk the Participant may pose. The 
Safeguarding Panel may also take into account any mitigating or 
aggravating factors it considers relevant and appropriate. ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS 20 20
20.14 20.15 9.3 The ICC may publish and/or share details of sanctions and risk 
management	measures	on	a	‘need	to	know’	basis,	in	such	form	and	
manner, and to such extent, as it deems necessary for the purposes of 
enforcement and/or compliance and having due regard for the aims and 
objectives of these ICC Safeguarding Regulations at all times. 
 9.4 No Participant who is declared Ineligible may, during the period of 
Ineligibility,	play,	coach,	attend,	officiate	or	otherwise	participate	or	
be involved in any capacity in any cricket match, event or activity 
(other than authorised education or rehabilitation programmes) that is 
authorised, organised, sanctioned, recognised or supported in any way 
by the ICC, a National Cricket Federation, or any member under the 
jurisdiction of a National Cricket Federation, or receive accreditation to 
provide	media	or	other	services	at	any	official	venue	or	cricket	match.	
 9.5 Sanctions and risk management measures imposed under these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations shall be recognised, enforced, extended 
and given effect to within their respective jurisdictions by the ICC and 
National Cricket Federations automatically upon receipt of notice of the 
same, without the need for further formality. 
 9.6 Equally, the ICC may (in its discretion) recognise and give effect to 
sanctions and risk management measures (or equivalent sanctions 
or measures) of National Cricket Federations, or (as the case may be) 
other sports governing bodies or other relevant authorities in respect of 
safeguarding matters. 
ARTICLE 10 – APPEALS
 10.1  Decisions made under these ICC Safeguarding Regulations may be 
challenged solely by way of appeal as set out in this Article 10. Decisions 
shall remain in effect while under appeal unless any properly convened 
Safeguarding Appeal Panel orders otherwise. 
 10.2 The only parties who may appeal a decision shall be: (a) the Participant; 
and (b) the ICC General Counsel. 
 10.3  Any notice to appeal under this Article must be lodged with the 
ICC’s General Counsel within seven (7) days of receipt of the relevant 
decision, who shall as soon as possible refer the notice to the 
Safeguarding Chairperson. In all cases, a copy of such notice will also be 
provided to the National Cricket Federation to which the Participant is 
affiliated.	Thereafter,	the	following	will	apply:	
 10.3.1 Within seven (7) days of receipt of a notice to appeal, the 
Safeguarding Chairperson will appoint three members of the 
Safeguarding Group to sit as a Safeguarding Appeal Panel 
(“Safeguarding Appeal Panel”). 
 10.3.2  The provisions of Article 8, applicable to proceedings before 
a Safeguarding Panel, shall apply mutatis mutandis (i.e., with 
changes	deemed	to	have	been	made	as	required	to	reflect	the	
different context) to appeal hearings before the Safeguarding 
Appeal Panel.  10.3.3  Where required in order to do justice (for example to cure 
procedural	errors	at	the	first	instance	hearing),	the	Chair	of	the	
Safeguarding Appeal Panel may rule that the appeal shall take 
the form of a re-hearing de novo of the issues raised by the 
case. In all other cases, the appeal shall not take the form of a de 
novo hearing but instead shall be limited to a consideration of 
whether the decision-maker(s):
 10.3.3.1  conducted the proceedings in a way that was 
substantially unfair and prejudicial to the appealing 
party;
 10.3.3.2 misinterpreted, failed to apply or wrongly applied 
these ICC Safeguarding Regulations or the applicable 
law; and/or
 10.3.3.3 came to a decision no reasonable decision-maker 
could have come to (whether in respect to liability, 
sanction and/or risk management measure(s), or any 
other relevant matter).
 10.3.4 For the avoidance of doubt, a Safeguarding Appeal Panel 
may uphold the original decision or issue a new decision that 
replaces the original decision (which, in the context of sanction 
and/or	risk	management	measure(s),	may	mean	an	‘increase’	or	
‘decrease’	to	any	sanction	and/or	risk	management	measure(s)	
previously imposed). 
 10.3.5 Appeal hearings pursuant to this Article 10 should be completed 
expeditiously. Save where all parties agree or fairness requires 
otherwise, the appeal hearing shall be commenced no later 
than thirty (30) days after the appointment of the Safeguarding 
Appeal Panel. It shall be open to the Safeguarding Appeal Panel, 
in its discretion, to determine that the matter (or any part 
thereof) be dealt with by way of written submissions only. 
 10.3.6  Any decision made by the Safeguarding Appeal Panel under 
this	Article	10,	shall	be	the	full,	final	and	complete	disposition	of	
the matter and will be binding on all parties. All parties waive 
irrevocably any right to any other form of appeal, review or 
recourse by or in any court or judicial authority, insofar as such 
waiver may validly be made. For the avoidance of doubt, such a 
waiver extends to any rights that would otherwise arise under 
sections 45 or 69 of the Arbitration Act 1996.ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS 20 20
20.16 20.17ARTICLE 11 – MISCELLANEOUS
 11.1  These ICC Safeguarding Regulations are to be interpreted and applied 
by reference to their core aim of ensuring the welfare of Protected 
Persons. Such interpretation and application shall take precedence 
over any strict legal or technical interpretations that may otherwise 
be proposed. Any documents that may be published by the ICC from 
time to time to further the aims of these ICC Safeguarding Regulations 
(for example policy and guidance documents) may be referred to as 
interpretative aids. 
 11.2 In the event that any incident or other matter occurs that is not 
provided for in these ICC Safeguarding Regulations (whether it relates 
to conduct, jurisdiction, investigation, procedure, sanction and/or 
risk management measure(s) or otherwise), or if any part of these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations is deemed deleted as contemplated by Article 
11.8 then the ICC, Safeguarding Chairperson, Deputy Safeguarding 
Chairperson, Safeguarding Panel, Safeguarding Appeal Panel or any 
other relevant decision-maker may take such action as considered 
appropriate	in	the	circumstances,	taking	into	account	the	specific	
circumstances of the individual case and the principles of natural justice 
and fairness. 
 11.3 Minor practical or technical points will not serve to invalidate 
the	procedure	or	any	decisions	or	findings	made	under	these	ICC	
Safeguarding Regulations, so long as the principles of natural justice and 
fairness are not infringed. 
 11.4 The ICC may share information obtained pursuant to these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations with National Cricket Federations, the police 
and/or other relevant authorities. 
 11.5 These ICC Safeguarding Regulations are intended to operate on a 
stand-alone basis. However, in the event that any matter or conduct 
falling under these ICC Safeguarding Regulations may also fall to 
be determined under any other relevant ICC rules, regulations or 
procedures (as may from time to time be in force), or is subject to 
investigation by the police or another sports governing body (including 
any National Cricket Federation or sports governing body outside 
cricket) or other relevant body, or is subject to any other legal/
regulatory/disciplinary process, then the ICC, Safeguarding Chairperson, 
Safeguarding Panel or other relevant decision-maker may at any 
point temporarily suspend any procedure ongoing under these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations. For the avoidance of doubt, in the event that 
any matter or conduct falling under these ICC Safeguarding Regulations 
also falls under any other relevant ICC rules, regulations or procedures, 
the ICC may bring proceedings under those other rules or regulations 
(regardless of whether proceedings are also brought under these ICC 
Safeguarding Regulations). 
 11.6  Save to the extent that disclosure and/or publication is provided for 
in these ICC Safeguarding Regulations, or is otherwise in accordance 
with the law, all matters considered under these ICC Safeguarding 
Regulations,	will,	so	far	as	practicable,	be	regarded	as	confidential	and	
used only for the purposes of these ICC Safeguarding Regulations. 
  11.7  These ICC Safeguarding Regulations are governed by English law. The 
English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to issue relief in aid of 
the arbitration agreement contained within these ICC Safeguarding 
Regulations	and/or	to	hear	and	determine	challenges	to	any	final	
decision issued under these ICC Safeguarding Regulations. 
 11.8  If any part of these ICC Safeguarding Regulations is ruled to be invalid, 
unenforceable or illegal for any reason, that part will be deemed 
deleted, and the rest of these ICC Safeguarding Regulations will remain 
in full force and effect. 
 11.9 Neither the ICC, nor any person employed by or appointed to assist 
the ICC, will be liable to any party for any act or omission unless it is 
actuated by malice or bad faith. 
 11.10  These ICC Safeguarding Regulations shall come into effect on 1 May 
2019 (“Effective Date”). The ICC may amend these ICC Safeguarding 
Regulations from time to time. Such amendments will come into effect 
on	the	date	specified	by	the	ICC.	The	substantive	provisions	of	these	
ICC Safeguarding Regulations shall not apply retrospectively to matters 
arising before the Effective Date (but, for the avoidance of doubt, a 
Participant may be considered to pose a risk of harm as a consequence 
of conduct that took place prior to the Effective Date).ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS 20 20
20.18 20.19APPENDIX 1 
DEFINITIONS
Adult at Risk. Any person aged 18 or older who is engaged in activities in 
connection with an ICC Event (whether as a Participant or otherwise) and who 
is, or may be, vulnerable to or unable to protect himself or herself against harm 
or	the	risk	of	it	(whether	generally	or	a	result	of	circumstances	in	which	they	find	
themselves at the relevant time)
Deputy Safeguarding Chairperson.	As	defined	in	Article	7.1.	
Effective Date.	As	defined	in	Article	11.10.
ICC. The International Cricket Council or its designee.
ICC Events. Means each of the following, and each match played as part of the 
following (men’s and women’s, as applicable): (a) the ICC Cricket World Cup, together 
with any qualifying events thereto; (b) the ICC Twenty20 World Cup, together with 
any qualifying events thereto; (c) the ICC Men’s World Test Championship Final, (d) 
the ICC Under 19 Cricket World Cup, together with any qualifying events thereto; 
(e) the ICC Intercontinental Cup; (f) any successor to or replacement for any of the 
foregoing	events,	as	specified	by	the	ICC	and	(g)	any	other	match	or	event	organised 	
or sanctioned by the ICC from time to time to which the ICC deems it appropriate 
that these ICC Safeguarding Regulations should apply.
ICC General Counsel. The person appointed by the ICC from time to time to act as 
the ICC’s General Counsel (or his/her designee). 
ICC	Official. Any individual bound by the ICC Code of Ethics.
ICC Safeguarding Regulations. These ICC Safeguarding Regulations promulgated 
by the ICC on the Effective Date. 
Ineligibility. The Participant being barred from participating in cricketing activities, 
as	set	out	more	specifically	in	Article	9.4.	
Match Referee. Any independent person who is appointed by the ICC or any 
other	relevant	party	as	the	official	match	referee	for	a	match	during	an	ICC	Event,	
whether such Match Referee carries out his/her functions remotely or otherwise. 
National Cricket Federation. A national or regional entity that is a member of or is 
recognised by the ICC as the entity governing the sport of cricket in a country (or 
collective group of countries associated for cricket purposes).
Notice of Charge.	As	defined	in	Article	6.1.
Participant.	As	defined	in	Article	2.1.
Pitch Curator. Any individual who acts as a pitch curator or groundsman at any 
stadium	or	venue	affiliated	(whether	through	a	club,	franchise,	county,	province	or	
otherwise) to any National Cricket Federation. 
Player Agent. Any individual who acts in any way in the capacity of agent, 
representative, adviser or otherwise in relation to the negotiation, arrangement, 
registration of execution of any employment or commercial agreement for a 
cricketer, irrespective of whether such individual is registered or licensed to 
perform such activity within a National Cricket Federation or not.Prohibited Conduct.	As	defined	in	Article	3.	
Protected Person(s). Any person(s) engaged in activities in connection with an ICC 
Event (whether as a Participant or otherwise), including (but not limited to) Young 
Persons and Adults at Risk. 
Provisional Suspension. The Participant being temporarily barred from participating 
in	cricketing	activities,	as	set	out	more	specifically	in	Article	5.6.	
Safeguarding Appeal Panel.	As	defined	in	Article	10.3.1.
Safeguarding Chairperson.	As	defined	in	Article	7.1.	The	Safeguarding	Chairperson	
shall	be	a	legally	qualified	person	of	sufficient	qualification	and	experience.	
Safeguarding Group.	As	defined	in	Article	7.1.	
Safeguarding Panel.	As	defined	in	Article	8.1.	
Umpire.	Any	umpire	(including	any	on-field	umpire,	television	umpire,	third	or	
fourth	umpire)	who	is	appointed	by	the	ICC	or	any	other	relevant	party	to	officiate	
in an ICC Event.
Umpire Support Personnel.	Any	technical	official	(for	example,	and	without	
limitation,	any	official	with	responsibility	for	operating	the	communication	
equipment for Umpires and Match Referees during an ICC Event) or umpire coach 
who is appointed by the ICC or any other relevant party to support the Umpires 
and/or Match Referees in their appointments to any match during an ICC Event.
Young Person. Any person under the age of 18 years engaged in activities in 
connection with an ICC Event (whether as a Participant or otherwise).ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS20
20.20APPENDIX 2 
NON-EXCLUSIVE GUIDANCE AS TO CONDUCT  
THAT MIGHT CONSTITUTE ‘HARM’ FOR THE PURPOSES  
OF THE ICC SAFEGUARDING REGULATIONS
‘Harm’	is	not	a	narrow	concept	and	whether	or	not	harm	has	occurred,	or	the	risk	
of	harm	exists,	will	inevitably	be	a	fact-specific	analysis.	However,	in	general	terms,	
‘harm’	means	ill-treatment	or	the	impairment	of	health,	welfare	or	development.	
Harm can be caused directly and indirectly, including by text, e-mail and various 
social media and other communication platforms.
Abusive behaviour is always harmful. There are various forms of abusive behaviour, 
including (but not limited to) the following:
Physical abuse 
Physical abuse may involve hitting, shaking, throwing, poisoning, burning or 
scalding, biting, drowning, suffocating or otherwise causing physical harm. 
Emotional abuse 
Emotional abuse is persistent emotional ill-treatment such as to cause severe and 
persistent adverse effects on another’s emotional development or state. It may 
involve, by way of example:
- conveying to someone that he/she is worthless, inadequate, or valued only 
insofar as they meet the needs of another person;
- not giving a person opportunities to express his/her views, deliberately 
silencing	him/her	or	‘making	fun’	of	what	he/she	says	or	how	they	
communicate;
- undue or repeated criticism, name-calling, sarcasm, harassment, or 
discrimination;
- inappropriate expectations being imposed upon a person; 
- preventing a person’s normal social interaction; 
- a person seeing or hearing the ill-treatment of another;
- bullying someone, causing him/her frequently to feel frightened, embarrassed 
or in danger; and
- exploitation or corruption of a person.
Sexual abuse 
Sexual abuse may involve, by way of example, sexual harassment, forcing or 
inappropriately enticing someone to take part in sexual activities against their will, 
whether or not the other person is aware of what is happening. 
Sexual abuse may involve physical contact, and it may also involve non-contact 
activities such as, without limitation, grooming, exposing oneself, involving 
another person in looking at, or in the production of, sexual images, or encouraging 
someone to behave in a sexually inappropriate way. 
21.1The following rules, agreements, regulations and documents are available on the 
ICC website (www.icc-cricket.com) or on request from enquiry@icc-cricket.com.
• Code of Ethics
• Duckworth Lewis Stern Method
• ICC Membership Criteria
•	 ICC	Code	of	Conduct	for	Match	Officials	and	Match	Officials	Support	Personnel
• ICC Memorandum and Articles 
• ICC Men’s Test Match Playing Conditions
• World Cricket League Playing Conditions
• World Cricket League Championship Playing Conditions 
•	 Pitch	and	Outfield	Monitoring	Process
• Player Eligibility Regulations
•	 Players’	and	Match	Officials’	Areas	–	Minimum	Standards 	
• ICC Regulations on Sanctioning of Events
•	 ICC	Classification	of	Official	Cricket
• Standard ICC Intercontinental Cup Playing Conditions
• ICC Anti-Discrimination Policy for International Cricket
• Terms of Reference for the Code of Conduct Commission
• Terms of Reference of the Disputes Resolution Committee
•	 Terms	of	Reference	–	Associate	Members’	Meetings
•	 Terms	of	Reference	–	Audit	Committee
•	 Terms	of	Reference	–	Women’s	Committee
•	 Terms	of	Reference	–	HR	and	Remuneration	Committee
•	 Terms	of	Reference	–	Finance	and	Commercial	Affairs	Committee
•	 Terms	of	Reference	–	Development	Committee
•	 Terms	of	Reference	–	Chief	Executive’s	Committee
•	 Terms	of	Reference	–	Cricket	Committee
•	 Terms	of	Reference	–	Nominations	Committee
• Women’s Test Match Playing Conditions
• Women’s One Day International Playing Conditions  
OTHER ICC  
REGULATIONS
 21
OTHER ICC REGULATIONS
