 The field must be played on a rectangular field, 360 feet in length and 160 feet in width. Home team must furnish playable balls at all times by attendants from either side of the playing field. No more than 11 players in the offensive huddle while the play clock is running is a foul. A muff is the touching of a loose ball by a player in an unsuccessful attempt to obtain possession of it. A free kick is a kickoff or safety kick that puts the ball in play to start a free kick down. A coach-to-player system allows a member of the coaching staff in the bench area or the coaches’ booth to communicate to a designated offensive or defensive player with a speaker in his helmet. Offensive team may make one forward pass from behind the line during each down. Illegal forward pass by either team is illegal and is a foul by the passing team. If a team presents an apparent punting formation, defensive acts that normally constitute illegal contact (chuck beyond five yards, etc.) Is a loss of down at the spot of the foul, or a 10-yard penalty from the previous spot, whichever is less beneficial for the offense. Penalty for a punt, drop kick, or placekick from beyond the line is to be enforced from the spot where the ball is punted or kicked. A try is an opportunity for either team to score one or two additional points during one scrimmage down. The commissioner has the sole authority to investigate and take appropriate disciplinary and/or corrective measures if any club action, non-participant interference, or calamity occurs in an nfl game which the commissioner deems so unfair or outside the accepted tactics. All replay reviews will be conducted by the senior vice president of officiating or his or her designee. The succeeding spot for a foul that occurs after a touchdown and before a whistle for a try is the next kickoff. The dead-ball spot is not reviewable. The clock is not reset if the on-field ruling is not. There is no 10-second runoff because the result after enforcement is a change of possession. The loss of down results in the ball After a score, team a lines up for a kickoff and huddles before the kickoff. The officials should kill the play before the kick. It is illegal for a team a player on a kickoff to push a team b player in the back while the ball is in the air. No player may bat a kick toward his opponent’s goal line (even if he is attempting to kick the ball) The kicking team must be in a legal formation before the kicker begins approaching the ball. If team a elects to replay the down, the offensive hold is disregarded, and the down is replayed. The rules apply when a pass, (legal), or illegal), thrown out of bounds illegally be the first to touch a The holding foul is a 10-yard penalty (with no automatic first down) because it occurred during a kick that went beyond the line. The ball is dead when it is touched by the team a player in the end zone, as it has not previously been touched by a1’s punt is rolling, (a) at the b6, where a2 recovers and downs it; or (c) at b4, where it is recovered by a2 and carried into the end end zone. If a foul is committed in an effort to block the kick, it is not a post-possession foul, so there is also an option to enforce the foul 11.39 momentum. Officials’ jurisdiction starts when the pregame security meeting takes place about 100 minutes before kickoff. If the action affected the outcome of the play, in any way, the referee will enforce a 15-yard penalty from the spot that the referee and the crew deem most equitable. The penalty for intentional grounding is enforced half the distance to the goal, or the spot of the foul, whichever is more advantageous to the defense. There is no 5 vs. 15 enforcement for dead-ball fouls at the end of a play. The penalties for illegal blocking or use of hands by either team is loss of 10 yards. Both teams must either enforce one foul on the kickoff or one on the try-kick play. Runners down by contact, out of bounds, or his helmet coming off are non-reviewable situations on running plays. Passing plays whether a pass is complete or incomplete is always reviewable. If a player has firm control of the ball with two feet or another body part (other than his hands) touching down inbounds, and then performs an act common to the game before losing it, it is a catch and fumble. Team a is awarded the ball at the spot where possession was lost in the team’s own end zone, and the ball will be placed at the one-yard line. The game clock is reviewable, and time can be put back on the clock in certain situations.