Ultimate is a non-contact, self-officiated disc sport played by two teams of seven players. Goal is scored when a player catches any legal pass in the end zone that player is attacking. Best perspective is the most complete view available by a player that includes relative positions of the disc, ground, players, and line markers involved in a play. Disc is "dead" when play has stopped and can continue only with a check (see 9.d) a throw is only considered complete when an offensive player gains possession that is not otherwise negated. Any player on the injured player’s team may call an injury timeout. A technical timeout may be called for illegal equipment, a dangerous condition, or a broken disc. The thrower may call a technical timeout during play to replace a cracked, torn, deeply gouged, creased, or punctured disc. A player in possession leaves the field following an injury, the replacing player takes possession. A game is played until one team first reaches the game total is the predetermined number of goals to win the game. The opposing team must be notified as soon as the injury is discovered (8.2) A timeout is also called. Players at the time of a timeout Team gaining possession of disc must carry it to, and put it into play at, the spot on the central zone nearest to where it first crossed the perimeter line to become out-of-bounds. If a player scores according to 12.a, but then unknowingly throws another pass, a goal is awarded to that player, regardless of the outcome of the pass. A stall count consists of announcing "stalling" and counting from one to ten loudly enough for the thrower to hear. If the new marker switches, it must reinitiate the stall count. A marker leaving the new count must return to a ten foot radius and returning is considered a new marker. A player leaving the mark is considered to return to the mark and returning to a new mark. The offsides and false start calls do not stop play, and the continuation rule (17.c) does not apply. The entire playing field is in-or-possessed disc is not allowed to affect play, when the marker is interrupted by a marker’s call, when it is returned to a mark. If an offensive player diverts away from the marker and return is returning is deemed a newmarker is considered Play stops when the thrower in possession acknowledges that an infraction has been called. The thrower must touch the disc to the ground before attempting a legal pass. If a defender calls "pick" while trailing a receiver by 6 feet, the defender should indicate whether the pick affected the play. Contact initiated by a thrower with the body of a legally positioned (15.b) marker is a foul. Contact with the extended (i.e.e., away from the midline of the body) arms or legs of a marker. Contact is not required for a player to invoke this rule where there is reasonable certainty contact would have occurred had the player not taken steps to avoid contact. If multiple players accumulate under a floating disc, one player’s dangerous play will be treated as receiving foul, even if a third player happens to make a successful play. The proper call is "dangerous play" and play stops. Players have an affirmative obligation to make reasonable efforts to avoidContact. The vast majority of dangerous play involves contact between players. Contact not required. Contact does not require contact. Contact is necessary to avoid this rule. If the player contacts an opponent while the disc is in the air and thereby All players must remain in the positions they occupied when play stopped. A sand foul occurs when a player causes sand to fly into an opponent’s face in a way that significantly interferes with their play. "9 if over 8" becomes "6 if over 5" and "4 if over 3" contested stall first call "5" second and subsequent calls. Captain can decline a misconduct penalty and leave the disc as is. There are not currently any requirements for rules adaptations for youth under this edition of the rules. If the penalty is against the receiving team, the disc is put into play at the brick mark closest to the end zone they are attacking (refer to tmf against defense above, b3.f) The disc is also put into action at the end of the end zones they are trying to attack (referred to b3) The penalty is not immediately available to the opposing team. If the player is ejected, the ejection also triggers a team misconduct penalty, the player must be removed from the field and the player cannot be replaced. The ejection triggers a penalty for a player who is ejected from the play. The player is removed from play.