 This page intentionally left blank it is here to hold a place for cover for screen version. do not include as part of print file! official rules- 2 -rules index rule section article page backcourt/frontcourt definitions. Court dimensions and markings at each end of the court with markings as shown on the court diagram. All lines shall be 2 inches wide (neutral zones excluded) Court dimensions must be measured as measured as the playing court. A minimum of nine balls must be made available to each team for pre-game warmup. The use of any foreign substance during games is strictly prohibited. Officials have the power to render decisions for infractions of rules committed inside or outside the boundary lines. This includes periods when the game may be stopped for any reason. Officials must use their judgment in stopping play to consult with the scorer’s table. Scorers must not signal officials while the ball is in play, except to notify them of the necessity to correct an error. In the event that there are only five eligible players remaining and one of these players is injured and must leave the game or is ejected, he must be replaced by the last player who was disqualified by reason of receiving six personal fouls. A coach is not permitted to cross the midcourt line and violators will be assessed an unsportsmanlike technical foul immediately. No substitutes may enter the game after a successful field goal by either team, unless the ball is dead due to a personal foul, technical foul, timeout, infection control or violation. No substitutes are allowed to enter game during an official’s suspension-of-play for (1) a delay of game warning, (2) retrieving an errant ball, (3) an inadvertent whistle, (4) instant replay review, (5) re-setting the timing devices or (6) an unusual circumstance. A transition scoring opportunity exists when, following a change in possession, the offensive team is continuously advancing the ball while it has an advantage based on the speed of the play, the position of the defenders, or both. A free throw is the privilege given a player to score one point by an unhindered attempt for the goal from a position directly behind the free throw line. This attempt must be made within 10 seconds. All periods of regulation play in the nba will be twelve minutes. All overtime periods of play will be five minutes. 15 minutes will be permitted between halves of all games. Each team is entitled to seven (7) charged timeouts during regulation play. each team is limited to no more than four (4) timeouts in the fourth period. in overtime periods, each team shall be allowed two (2) team timeouts. The game clock shall be started when the missed free throw is legally touched by any player within the playing area of the court. A player shall not be granted any timeout if both of his feet are in the air and any part of his body has broken the vertical plane of the boundary line. When a team is granted a timeout, play shall not resume until the time-out clock has expired. The ball shall be put into play by a jump ball at the circle which is closest to the spot where: (1) a held ball occurs (2) a ball out-of-bounds caused by both teams occurs (3) an official is in doubt as to who last touched the ball before going out of bounds and the players cannot be identified. If injury, ejection or disqualification makes it necessary for any player to be replaced, his substitute may not participate in the jump ball. If a team fails to attempt a field goal within the time allotted, a shot clock violation shall be called. The ball shall be awarded to the opposing team on the sideline at the nearest spot but no nearer to the baseline than the free throw line extended. No player shall have any part of his person over the boundary line and teammates shall not occupy positions parallel or adjacent - 31 -to the baseline if an opponent desires one of those positions. The ball is returned to the original throw-in spot after a score, field goal or free throw, the latter coming as the result of a personal foul. If a teammate of the shooter violates, no point can be scored and the opposing team will inbound on either sideline at the free throw line extended. The shooter shall receive a substitute free throw if his attempt is unsuccessful but shall be ignored if the attempt is successful. If a timeout is granted prior to a free throw attempt, the free throw will be attempted following the timeout. The ball shall be put into play by a throw-in, as after any successful field goal. The ball is awarded to the opposing team on the sideline at the free throw line extended. The shot clock shall remain the same as when play was interrupted or reset to 14 seconds, whichever is greater. In starting a dribble after receiving the ball while standing still, the ball must be out of the player’s hand before the pivot foot is raised off the floor. A player who falls to the floor while holding the ball, or while coming to a stop, may not gain an advantage by sliding. A delay-of-game is called for preventing the ball from being promptly put into play. The team with the correct number of players will instruct the crew chief to resume play from the point in time when the technical foul was assessed. A player entering the game when beckoned by an official with his shirt untucked. A maximum of two technical fouls for unsportsmanlike acts may be assessed any player, coach, trainer, or other team bench person. A technical foul called for (1) delay of game, (2) coaches box violations, (3) defensive 3-seconds, (4) having a team total of less or more than five players when the ball becomes alive, (5) a player hanging on the basket ring or backboard, (6) participation in the game when not on team’s active list, or (7) shattering the backboard or making the rim unplayable during the game. Violators will be subject to suspension, without pay, for a minimum of one game and fined up to $50,000. All players not participating in the game must remain in the immediate vicinity of their bench. The foul occurs if an offensive player, or a teammate, is fouled while having a clear-path-to-the-basket foul. The foul is caused by the defender’s attempt to intercept or deflect a pass intended for the offensive player with the transition scoring opportunity. Each team is limited to four team fouls per regulation period without additional penalties. The first four common fouls committed by a team in any regulation period shall result in the ball being awarded to the opposing team on the sideline nearest where play was interrupted. The ball shall be awarded no nearer to the baseline than the free throw line extended. If a “loose ball” foul called against the defensive team is followed by a successful free throw, one free throw will be awarded to the offended player whether or not the penalty is in effect. No points may be scored if a ‘loose. ball’ foul calls against the offensive. team is awarded possession on the sideline at the free throw line extended in the frontcourt. The ball can never be awarded. to the scoring team out-of-bounds following a personal foul which occurs on the same play. Any player who throws a punch, whether it connects or not, has committed an unsportsmanlike act. The officials will judge the legality of the basket in these situations based on the guidelines as set forth in comments on the rules, section ii(l) note: instant replay will not be used to check a successful basket in subsection (1) above if the throw-in, free throw attempt or jump ball started with.2 or.1 on the game clock. The replay center official and official who called the foul will review the video to determine the following: (i) whether a called foul that is not committed on or by a player in the act of shooting occurred prior to the expiration of time on the game clock. (3) whether the shot clock expired before the foul occurred. (4) whether an 8-second backcourt violation occurred before the ball left the shooter’s hand. (5) whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred. The play can no longer be reviewed once the ball is inbounded and touched on the court, a personal foul is assessed or violation is whistled. The review must take place prior to the shooter releasing the first free throw attempt. For a successful field goal, the replay center official will time the play to determine whether the field goal was released prior to the expiration of 24 seconds. If the official determines that the ball was released - 56 - before the shot clock expired, the points will not count and the opposing team will be awarded the ball at the free throw line extended. The officials will stop play during the first pause in action prior to any subsequent change of possession. The replay center official will determine the final outcome on all replays triggered pursuant to section i above except flagrant fouls and altercations, which will be decided by the on-court officials, with personnel in the replay center playing a supporting role. replay reviews should be conducted within two minutes. The challenging team must call a legal timeout immediately after the call in question (unless a mandatory timeout or timeout called by the opposing team is already underway) “immediately” shall mean that a timeout is called prior to the ball being given to the thrower-in, the ball. The window of time within which a team must immediately challenge the call starts after the officials notify the negatively affected team of the final ruling on the play. The on-court crew chief will determine the final outcome when instant replay review of a called foul is triggered by a challenge. The replay center official may also review the video to determine only the following other matters: (1) if goaltending or basket interference was ruled prior to the ball touching the rim, whether the shooter committed a boundary line violation. Play is resumed at the point of interruption (as defined in rule 4, section xiv) for purposes of this rule only. If a challenge results in the call on the floor being overturned following instant replay review, play is resumed. A flagrant foul is an unsportsmanlike act and the offender is ejected following confirmation by instant replay review. repeated acts shall result in expulsion from the game and a minimum fine of $2,000. A player must allow a moving opponent without the ball the opportunity to avoid contact if he moves into his path. Each player when introduced, prior to the game, must be uniformly dressed. Players not in uniform (whether on the active list or inactive list) are not required to wear a sport coat when seated on the bench (in the first or second row) during games, but such players must wear dress attire that is clean and neat in appearance. If a player suffers a laceration or a wound where bleeding occurs or if blood is visible on a player or his uniform, the officials shall suspend the game at the earliest appropriate time and allow a maximum of 30 seconds for treatment. If a bleeding player is awarded a free throw attempt(s) as a result of a personal foul, or is involved in a jump ball, the bleeding player will be allowed to return to the game when he has received appropriate treatment by medical staff personnel. 3-pt. field goal official will raise one arm on attemptif goal is successful raise the other arm. Double foul cross clenched fist above head.