 2022 official playing rules of the national football league roger goodell, commissioner 2022 rules changes rule-section-article 6-1-3 makes permanent the free kick formation change implemented during the 2021 season. The field must be played on a rectangular field, 360 feet in length and 160 feet in width. The surface of the field of play must be a league-approved shade of green. The home club must provide and use the standard set of sideline markers approved by the commissioner. The home team must furnish playable balls at all times by attendants from either side of the playing field. An intentional fumble that causes the ball to go forward is a forward pass and may be illegal. A muff is the touching of a loose ball by a player in an unsuccessful attempt to obtain possession of it. Close-line play is contact that occurs between the outside edges of the normal tackle positions and three yards on either side of the line of scrimmage. A down is a period of action that starts when the ball is put in play (3-2 A foul is a foul that occurs during the period after the snap until the ball is dead. The spot of enforcement is the spot at which a penalty is enforced. A huddle is the action of two or more players in the field of play A free kick is a kickoff or safety kick that puts the ball in play to start a free kick down. The line of scrimmage is the vertical plane of the yard line that passes through the forward point of the ball after it has been made ready A player who makes a legal forward pass is known as the passer until the play ends. The teammates of any player who passes the ball forward (legally or illegally) are collectively known collectively as the passing team or passers. The pocket area is the area between the outside edges of the normal tackle positions on each side of the center extending backward to the offensive team’s end line. after the ball leaves the pocket area, this area no longer exists. The length of the game is 60 minutes divided into four periods of 15 minutes each. The two-minute warning is an automatic timeout that occurs at the conclusion of the last down for which the ball is legally snapped or kicked prior to two minutes remaining The field of play, and the line to gain remain the same. An attempt is made to call a timeout in such situations, the officials shall not grant a timeout; instead, play will continue, and a penalty will be called. The offending team will be subject to a 15-yard penalty (see 12- It is a delay of the game if the ball is not put in play by a snap within 40 seconds after the start of the play clock. A team will have 25 seconds, beginning with the referee’s whistle, to put the ball The officials will run 10 seconds off the game clock before permitting the ball to be put in play on the ready-for-play signal. If there is a defensive foul prior to the snap while time is in, the half will end. Players must wear numerals on their jerseys in accordance with rule 5, section 4, article 3, item 3. No more than 11 players in the offensive huddle while the play clock is running is a foul. If a team has more than penalties are: (a) for 12 or more players in the offensive huddle (whistle blown immediately and ball remains dead): loss of five yards from the succeeding spot. (b) for a substitute entering the field during a live ball: Coach-to-player system allows a member of the coaching staff in the bench area or the coaches’ booth to communicate to a designated offensive or defensive player with a speaker in his helmet. communication begins once a game official has signaled a down No visible identiﬁcation of a manufacturer’s name or logo on the exterior of a helmet or on any attachment to a helmet is permitted unless provided for under a commercial arrangement between the league and manufacturer. Players may not wear long-sleeved undergarments that include pegrip sleeves that are not approved by the nfl. Players may wear approved caps, skull caps and bands, approved cold weather gear, or other approved headwear for medical purposes only, as determined by the commissioner. If worn under the helmet, no portion may hang from or otherwise be visible outside the If the ball falls off the tee a second time during the same free kick down, the kicking team then must either use a player to hold the ball or must kick it off the ground. A safety kick puts the ball in play after a safety Kicking team player may block or use his hands or arms against an opponent in the area that is at or no more than five yards beyond the receiving team’s restraining line, except to push or pull aside a receiver who is actively attempting The dead-ball spot for free kicks that result in a touchback is the 25-yard line. If the foul is not part of a double foul and the opponent has possession at the end of the down, the foul may be enforced from The ball is not dead because it touches an official who is inbounds, or because of a signal by an official other than a whistle. The kicking team legally recovers a scrimmage kick anywhere in the field of play after it first has been touched If an eligible receiver who is on the line of scrimmage moves backward immediately prior to the snap and does not come to a complete stop before the snap, it is a false start. All 11 offensive players have been set for at least one full second Before a second player can legally go in motion, it is another shift and requires another simultaneous stop for at least one full second by all players. It is also illegal shift if a player under or behind center goes in motion and fails to come to Offensive team may make one forward pass from behind the line during each down. Illegal forward pass by either team is illegal and is a foul by the passing team. Roughing the passer rules apply on all passes (legal or illegal) thrown from behind All offensive players other than those identified in article 5 above are ineligible to catch a legal or illegal forward pass thrown from behind the line of scrimmage. Players not on either end of their line or at least one yard behind it when the ball is snapped An ineligible offensive player, including a t-formation quarterback, is not permitted to move more than one yard beyond the line of scrimmage before the pass has been thrown. The restrictions on illegal contact and an illegal cut block both end, but the restriction on defensive holding remains in effect. If a team presents an apparent punting formation, defensive acts that normally constitute illegal contact (chuck beyond five yards, etc.) Is a loss of down at the spot of the foul, or a 10-yard penalty from the previous spot, whichever is less beneficial for the offense. (c) if there is a personal foul or unsportsmanlike conduct foul by the The penalty for a punt, drop kick, or placekick from beyond the line is to be enforced from the spot where the ball is punted or kicked. A second kick from behind the line of scrimmage is legal provided the ball has not crossed After the kick ends, both teams are subject to the normal restrictions applicable to offense and defense. If the ball does not go beyond the line of scrimmage and returns behind the line untouched by the receiving team, the blocking restrictions of the offense and the If the ball has returned behind the line untouched by the receiving team beyond the line, and the kicking team catches or recovers the ball, there has been a change of possession. The ball is dead at the spot of recovery, even if a member Dead-ball spot for scrimmage kicks that result in a touchback is the 20-yard line. The receiving team has the option of taking the penalty at the previous spot and replaying the down, or adding the penalty yardage on to the If a player muffs the ball, but catches it before it touches the ground, it is also a fair catch. An intentional muff forward prior to a catch in order to gain ground is an illegal bat. A try is an opportunity for either team to score one or two additional points during one scrimmage down. The team that scored the touchdown shall put the ball in play: (a) anywhere on or between the inbound lines; (b) 15 A field goal is scored when all of the following conditions are met. The entire ball must pass through the vertical plane of the goal, which is the area above the crossbar and between the uprights. The team on defense during the try shall The team scored upon must put the ball in play by a free kick (punt, dropkick, or placekick) from its 20-yard line. The impetus is always attributed to the offense, unless the defense creates a new force that An offensive player is permitted to block an opponent by contacting him with his head, shoulders, hands, and/or outer surface of the forearm, or with any other part of his body that is not prohibited by another rule. The use of hands All players are prohibited from tripping an opponent, including the runner. It is not a foul if the defender initiates the contact with the blocker, or if the blocker is trying to slip or escape from the defender, and any engagement with him is incidental. A player who initiates contact against such an opponent is Players in a defenseless posture are: (1) a player in the act of or just after throwing a pass (passing posture) (2) a receiver running a pass route when the defender approaches from the side or behind. ( A defensive player must not unnecessarily or violently throw him down or land on top of him with all or most of the defender’s weight. A rushing defender is prohibited from forcibly hitting in the knee area or below a passer who has one or Players are prohibited from: (a) striking an opponent with his fists; (b) kicking or kneeing an opponent; (c) striking, swinging at, or clubbing the head, neck, or face of an opponent. All players If any foreign object(s) are deemed a safety hazard by the game officials, in addition to a yardage penalty, the player will be subject to ejection from the game. violations of (a), (b), (c), ( A player will be automatically disqualified if that player is penalized twice in the same game for committing one of the unsportsmanlike conduct fouls listed below. The fouls do not have to be judged by the official to be flagrant for Team personnel must observe the zone restrictions applicable to the bench area and the border rimming the playing field. Only persons permitted within the solid six-foot white border (1-1-2) while play is in progress on the field are game The number of the down and the line to gain remain the same. A foul against an official, regardless of when it occurs, is always treated as a foul between downs. The basic spot is a reference point that is used to determine the spot of enforcement for fouls committed pursuant to the three-and-one method of enforcement. The penalty is enforced from the basic spot if: (a) the defense fouls The penalty for a forward pass from behind the line after the ball has been beyond the line is enforced from the previous spot, unless the spot of the pass is behind the passer’s goal line, in which case it is a safety. If there is a foul from the time of the snap until a legal scrimmage kick ends, enforcement is from the previous spot. This includes a foul during a run prior to a legal kick, and a foul by the kicking team during a missed field The succeeding spot for a foul that occurs after a touchdown and before a whistle for a try is the next kickoff. The number of the next down and the line to gain is the same as for the down in which the fouls occurred. All replay reviews will be conducted by the senior vice president of officiating or his or her designee. The decision must be made within 60 seconds from when video is shared with the referee on the field. If a pre-review announcement was made that there was no foul because the ball was ruled to be touched, a foul for running into or roughing the kicker or holder can be created in replay. The dead-ball spot is not reviewable The game clock is reviewable to determine if it properly expired when officials restore time after the last play of any half, or of an overtime period in the preseason or regular season. The clock is not reset if the on-field ruling is not The referee will stay at the on-field monitor for one minute while communications are being restored. If communications are lost, the referee will conduct the replay review in consultation with the replay official. The first team to possess the ball scores a field goal or touchdown, after which the second team loses possession by an interception or fumble, the down will be permitted to run to its conclusion. Only fouls that require the down to be replayed The commissioner has the sole authority to investigate and take appropriate disciplinary and/or corrective measures if any club action, non-participant interference, or calamity occurs in an nfl game which the commissioner deems so extraordinarily unfair or outside the accepted tactics The officiating responsibilities and mechanics are specified in the mechanics manual, published annually by the national football league. A penalty will be assessed when a player was not penalized by on-field officials but was subsequently disqualified pursuant to this section. NEW: 14-1-2, item 5 combination penalties loss of ball and fifteen yards fair catch interference. NEW: 8-2-1 score not allowed offending team scores after foul during down in which time expires for half (with no extension ict offensive too many men on field otm illegal crackback icb offside on free kick ofk illegal cut icu player out of bounds on kick pok illegal double team block idt roughing the kicker rrk illegal formation il Incomplete pass 32, 65 ineligible player downfield 33 ineligible receiver 32 injury timeouts 14 instant replay 15, 64-68, 70 intentional fouls to manipulate clock 54 intentional grounding 9, 15, 31-33, 35, 60, 65 The loss of down results in the ball going over to team b on downs. There is no 10-second runoff because the result after enforcement is a change of possession. a.r. 3.3 fumble—out of bounds third-and a1's punt is rolling on the b10 when b1 bats the ball backward out of the back of the end zone. at the time of the bat, the rolling punt was: (a) nearly at rest; or (b) The one exception is if the foul is by team a beyond the line of scrimmage, during a scrimmage kick, in which case there is no loss of down. The foul is enforced pursuant to normal enforcement principles, based on the type of play during If the ball is not in the vicinity of the b36, and a delay in retrieving and spotting it will create a time disadvantage for either team, the game clock will be stopped and the play clock frozen. The clock will stop upon the recovery Quarterback a1 fumbles the ball at the a30, where it is recovered and downed by b1, and a1 was offside on the play. The clock starts on the snap regardless of whether the foul is accepted or declined. The clock starts upon the legal touching by a7, so at least one second will run off the clock. No time runs off clock, because the ball was not legally touched prior to a’s recovery. No penalty can be assessed from Team a has one timeout remaining and is behind 21-17; a1 runs to the b17 and is downed inbounds. Team a’s ball, first-and-10 on b17. charge team a with its final Team a must leave for one play unless a timeout is called after a tackle a3 was hurt at the line of scrimmage. Team a has previously been charged with four timeouts. Running after the two-minute warning of the half, the illegal shift converts to a false start. If all 11 players get set, and then two players shift without resetting prior to the snap, it is a live ball foul for an illegal a.r.59 team b throws ball out of bounds after interception third-and-10 on b45. twenty-five seconds remain in a tied game. a1’s pass is intercepted by b2 at the b30. a.r.68 second timeout in same dead ball period under two minutes third-and-10 on b40 with 1:30 remaining in a tied game. 4.69 too many team a players on field on punt—last play of 4.77 double foul with a change of possession on a kicking play. 4.78 double foul after a change—last play of half second-and-10 on a30. ruling: 4.79 last play of game—double foul Last play of game: a1’s punt is rolling at the 50 where a2 downs it, after which b2 hits the punter helmet to helmet at the a15 time in the half expires on the play. If b declines Safety kick goes out of bounds untouched by team b, the receiving team can elect to extend the period for an untimed down after enforcement of the penalty for the kickoff. (4-8-2-b-4) a.r Team a is running a no-huddle offense, and substitute a12 runs onto the field after the previous play. If this occurs before the two-minute warning, the umpire should hold up play until the defense has the opportunity to match A player leaves field on opponent’s sideline or end line third-and-12 on a40. a1 scrambles and gains five yards. at the end of the down, it is discovered that. withdrawn offensive player a2 had There are 12 men in the huddle on kickoff after a score, team a lines up for a kickoff and huddles before the kickoff. The officials should kill the play before the kick. a.r. 6.3 onside kick—illegal touch—team b has the option to take the ball at the spot of illegal touching by team a, however, the five-yard penalty for illegal touching cannot be enforced from the illegal Team a must accept penalty and have a rekick, or the ball would belong to team a, because team a is in legal possession at the end of the down. In blocking on a free kick, the location of the block is irrelevant. 6.23 kick into end zone—fumbled into field of play on a kickoff from the a35, b1 catches the ball in the end zone and fumbles after he starts to run. (a) b’s ball, It is illegal for team b to block in the first 15-yards from team a’s restraining line until the ball has touched the ground or been legally touched. The location of the block is irrelevant in determining the legality of blocking on free It is illegal for a team a player on a kickoff to push a team b player in the back while the ball is in the air. No player may bat a kick toward his opponent’s goal line (even if he is attempting to The kicking team must be in a legal formation before the kicker begins approaching the ball. kicking team members must remain in their position with one foot on the yard line behind the kicker’s restraining line, from the time the kicker approaches the ball Team a must keep their feet on the ground once the kicker begins his approach, and until the ball is kicked, but they may lean forward prior to the kick. Team a has five players to the right of the kicker, all standing within one Team a lines up in a legal formation with six players to the left side of the ball and five on the right, all within one yard of the a35. The “decoy” player was not the “kicker� 7.8 defensive player fakes charge, but does not enter neutral zone. 7.9 false start or neutral zone infraction second-and-7 on a30.8. 7-4-2.8 false start: (a Ball snapped through quarterback’s legs third-and-10 on b40. quarterback a1 lines up under center with his hands in position to receive a hand-to-handsnap, but the center snaps the ball through a1 a.r.27 down by contact/or not - sliding runner third-and-goal on a5. When a runner intentionally goes to the ground, he is afforded protection from defensive contact to his body, (if the slide was early If team a elects to replay the down, the offensive hold is disregarded, and the down is replayed. The clock is reset to what it was at the time of the snap, and it then starts on the snap. If team a.r. fumble—out of bounds / out of end zone/after two-minute warning a.41 interception—fumble out of bounds—touchback first-and-goal on b7. b2 intercepts a pass in 8.1 complete/incomplete first-and-10 on a20. a.r.1 completed catch. ruling: a’s ball, first- and-10 at a31 completed catch. 8.3 pass complete— a1 throws a pass to a2 who is contacted by a defender before he completes the catch at the three-yard line. The receiver had the ball long enough to become a runner prior to going to the ground, so he does not have a.r.22 quarterback re-cocks arm—fumble second-and-10 on a30 after quarterback a1’s hand has started forward in a passing motion, he changes his mind and does not pass the ball. If the spot of an illegal forward pass is in team a’s end zone it will be a safety. If team a recovers the ball after it is touched by team b beyond the line, the ball would be dead. The rules apply when a pass, (legal or illegal), is thrown from behind the line of scrimmage. An eligible receiver forced out of bounds illegally can be the first to touch a pass. Quarterback a1 throws an incomplete pass to the b30. prior to the pass, b1 blocked a2 below the waist at the line of scrimmage. A receiver who is not flexed, (lined up within two yards of his tackle If an offensive player pushes off a defensive player to create space more than one yard beyond the line of scrimmage before attempting to catch a pass, it is offensive pass interference. If a2 is an ineligible player who made contact within 1- yard of There is no foul for illegal contact or defensive pass interference on the widest man, when team a presents an apparent punt formation. The exception to the rules remains in effect until the ball is punted, even for the player who was originally the widest The ball did not get back to the line of scrimmage a.r.86 not intentional grounding. If the ball lands out of bounds beyond the lines of scrimmage extended, it is not a foul. If the ball makes contact with the ineligible player while still in possession of the player handing the ball, it is a fumble if the ball goes to the ground. No player may hand the ball forward except to an eligible receiver who is behind the line a.r.107 backward pass on fourth down—recovered beyond line by team a. team a trails 17-13 on the last play of the game on a fourth-and-goal on b5. The ball is muffed by Two-minute fumble rules apply to both teams, throughout the down. If neither player immediately regains control of the ball before it hits the ground, so a2 can advance once he gains control. Second-and-10 on a20. quarterback a1, in a shotgun formation, hands off forward to back a2, who runs right on a sweep, stops, and passes from the a18 to a1 at the a26 who If team a does not present a standard field goal formation (an equal number of players on either side of the snapper, in a tight formation), it removes the restrictions on team b relating to covering the center. If the personal protector moves both Team a first touches in field of play and ball goes out of bounds fourth-and-10 on a40. The ball is dead when it is touched by the team a player in the end zone, as it has not previously been touched by a1’s punt is rolling, (a) at the b6, where a2 recovers and downs it; or (c) at b4, where it is recovered by a2 and carried into the end zone. (a Team a blocks team b into ball fourth-and-10 on 50. a2 blocks passive b1 into the ball, and the ball rolls over the end line. Penalty is enforced from the spot of the foul if that spot is inside the The holding foul is a 10-yard penalty (with no automatic first down) because it occurred during a kick that went beyond the line (9-1-4(d) scrimmage kick crosses line of scrimmage and returns behind line a.r a.r.muffs the ball on the a28 and it rolls out of bounds on a30. (a) the only option is a fair-catch kick or snap at the a14. extend period. (b) fair- a1 steps on the sideline at the b1 and then dives for the ball, which is still airborne one yard in the end zone and bats it back to the b2. ruling: b’s ball, first-and-10 a.r.73 kicking team player out of bounds during punt—forced out fourth-and-7 on a31. a1, who is attempting to cover the punt, is contacted and forced out of. bounds by b3 at the a.r.81 double change of possession—foul during return fourth-and-10 on a40. a2 recovers fumble at the b34 and runs to the b33 where he fumbles, and b2 recovers and is downed a.r. 10.9 invalid fair-catch signal—interference with opportunity to catch kick fourth-and-10 on a40. a1 punts and b1 gives an invalid fair catch signal and muffs the ball up into A team has the option to enforce the penalty for blocking after giving a signal (valid or invalid), which is enforced from the spot of the foul. (14-1-3) a.r. 10.21 valid fair-catch signal a.r. 10.30 no fair catch signal given—punt receiver contacted after touching kick—legal fourth-and-six on a49. a4 lowers his helmet and hits b2 in the chin causing b2 to muff the a2 touches the ball while attempting to recover it and muffs it into the end zone, where it is touched by b2 and then recovered by a3. a try-kick is a scrimmage down, so rules for scrimmage kicks apply to a.r. 11.15 live ball and dead ball team b fouls on the try on a kick-try from the b15, b1 is offside at the snap. (b) re-try (anywhere between the a.r.23 two-point try attempt—fouls by both teams with a change of possession on a try attempt from the 2-yard line, qba1’s pass is intercepted by b4 in the end zone. Team a would likely choose the points and have team b safety kick from the b10. If a foul is committed in an effort to block the kick, it is not a post possession foul, so there is also an option to enforce the foul 11.39 momentum—illegal forward pass team b in own end zone—interception team a first-and-10 on b16. momentum only applies to team that has just gained possession after a change of possession. a1’s pass is intercepted by b1 at the b6, and his momentum carries him into the end zone where he scrambles to try and run it out. (14-4-4) a.r.47 not a field-goal attempt from the b17 is blocked and: (a) is recovered by a2 at the b15 who runs for a touchdown. (b) touchdown team a kickoff a35. since the scrimmage kick was recovered by team 11.62 missed field goal—double foul with change of possession fourth-and-10 on b20. a1’s field-goal attempt from the b38 is blocked behind the line of scrimmage. b3 picks up the loose a1 takes the snap and hands the ball forward to back a2 at the a4. a4 recovers and is tackled in the end zone by his facemask. A 1 muffs the snap, accidentally kicks the ball, and the a.r. 12.5 hands to the face—defense against wide receiver second-and-10 on b40. (12-1-7) is a foul regardless of whether the play is a run or a pass. (b It is a 10-yard penalty and a loss of down for team a to illegally kick or bat the ball on a scrimmage play. If the foul for illegal kicking or batting occurs beyond the line of scrimmage, the foul is enforced as a foul If a quarterback throws while on the run, he regains all the special protections except the one-step rule and low hit rule. A receiver who is attempting to catch a swing pass is a “defenseless player,” whether Quarterback ducks to avoid contact as he is about to be sacked in the pocket. Quarterback is out of the pocket first-and-10 on a20, and while moving, throws an incomplete pass. defender b1 takes two steps after Quarterback a1 becomes a lead blocker, turns the corner, (more than 2 yards outside the original position of the left tackle), and comes back toward where the ball was snapped, and blocks tackle b7 low at the a40. It is not a foul for a blindside block if forcible contact occurs in “close line play” prior to the ball leaving that area. The ball is not considered to have left that area due to a shotgun snap, so long Team b cannot push a teammate into the offensive formation during a down in which there is a scrimmage kick formation. This is not a post-possession foul, because it is an attempt to block the kick, so enforcement is from the previous spot a chop block is illegal anywhere on the field on any type of play. anytime an offensive player sets up to block in a fashion that “lures” the defender. this applies to all type plays - run, pass, or kick a.r. 12.70 hitting defenseless player—snapper on field goal or try fourth-and-5 on b18. (a) b’s. ball, first-and.and-10 on b15 12.78 use of the helmet – forcible helmet contact thrusting forward and upward third-and-5 on a35. 12.79 use of helmet – first point of contact is not deemed a foul as he was bracing for impact 12.88 player intentionally sliding or diving to ground in attempt to gain yardage third-and-10 on a20. The ball is spotted where it was when the runner’s first body part, other than a hand or foot, a.r.98 field goal formation—leverage—attempt to gain height fourth-and-10 on b25. A player who is more than one yard off the line of scrimmage is prohibited from leaping in an attempt to block a a.r.104 hideout—in bench area third-and-6 on b45. split receiver a2 lines up in front of his bench area at the b45, two yards from the sideline in an attempt to be on the a1 jumps up and yells at the umpire, because he didn’t think the foul had been called. The foul against the official is treated as a foul between downs, thus resulting in first-and-goal. Two violations of a.r. 12.122 illegal bat—end zone fourth-and-10 on a2. The ball goes into the team a end zone where a2 bats it out of bounds: (a) in the end zone; (b Only the deliberate kicking of a loose ball is a foul. accidental kicking or batting does not create a new impetus. The unsportsmanlike conduct penalty is enforced as a dead ball foul. Referee will enforce a 15-yard penalty from the spot that he and the crew deem most equitable. Officials’ jurisdiction starts when the pregame security meeting takes place about 100 minutes before kickoff. If the action affected the outcome of the play, in any way, the referee will enforce a 15-yard penalty from the spot that the referee and the crew deem most equitable, including awarding or negating a score. a.r.12 foul by team a—followed by change of possession third-and-10 on a30. while a1 was a runner: (a) a2 held on the a28; or (b) a3 The penalty for intentional grounding is enforced half the distance to the goal, or the spot of the foul, whichever is more advantageous to the defense. The penalties for illegal blocking or use of hands by either team is loss of 10 yards. The holding penalty is a 10-yard penalty (with no automatic first down) because it occurred during a kick that went beyond the line. Team a can also decline the penalty, thus giving team b the ball at the spot of first touch. The penalty is enforced from the dead-ball spot unless it is a personal foul or unsportsmanlike conduct foul. Additional plays involving penalty enforcement during scrimmage kick plays are in rule 9 of the casebook. Team b has possession at the end of the down and there are no other fouls, the foul can be enforced from the dead-ball spot. 5 vs. 15 enforcement applies if there is at least one 15-yard penalty by one team There is no 5 vs. 15 enforcement for dead-ball fouls at the end of a play. Team a has possession at the end of the down and there are no other fouls, the foul can be enforced from the dead-ball spot; see 14-2-4. Team a fouls after scoring fourth-and-5 on There is no option for 5 vs. 15 enforcement due to the change of possession. The fouls offset at the spot where team b’s foul would be enforced if it was only foul. The NFL's Pro Football Hall of Fame is the NFL's highest-scoring unit. The NFL has the ability to officiate a play that is deemed to be a touchback. Team a is offside on the kickoff from the a35. The fouls offset at the spot where team b’s foul would be enforced if it was the only foul on this play. Team a's impetus and team a’s foul first-and-10 on 50. (14-4-4) a.r.104 team b runs and fouls in end zone. Team b's impetus put the ball in a.r.113 punt—first touch—team b foul in end zone fourth-and-5 on a40. a.114 missed field goal. a field goal attempt from the b30 is blocked at the b28, and the Both teams must either enforce one foul on the try and one on the kickoff. Both fouls are either live and dead-ball fouls, or enforced one foul each other on the kick play. Quarterback a1 runs out of bounds at a.r.139 successful field goal—team b live ball foul. a1 runs with the ball to the b1 and fumbles there, and the ball rolls into the end zone where a2 recovers, and b2 piles on. a.r.150 multiple fouls by team b—live ball/dead ball—fourth down fourth-and-15 on b40. 14.150: Team a.commits defensive pass interference on the play at the b25 after Team a must kick off to team b if team b scores a touchdown or does not score, the game is over. Team b has an opportunity to possess the ball in the postseason. If team a scores a field goal on first possession team a Team a’s field-goal attempt is blocked by b3 at the line of scrimmage. Team b is not considered to have had an opportunity to possess the ball because it did not touch the ball beyond the line. Team a wins the Team a trails—interception—double foul with change of possession trailing 13-10 after the first team to possess the ball in overtime kicks a successful field goal, the second team receives the kickoff and is downed at its own 30-yard line On-field officials award possession to the kicking team at the end of any free kick down, including when that ruling is negated by a foul, it is an automatic replay official review. Only the replay official can initiate a review of this play Referee can stop the game to review at any time including outside two minutes of either half. Touching of a kick is reviewable, but replay cannot review whether a player was responsible for touching the ball (see 9-2) a1’s punt hits on the 1-yard line and bounces in the air toward the end zone. a1 leaps from the field of play and while airborne bats the ball back to a3. a2 touches the sideline while running a’s ball fourth-and-4 on a33. reset the clock to the time at the snap and start on snap. Only the replay official can initiate a review of this play. ball touching object/ground a.r. Officials spot ball at 29 even though a1 had the ball extended to the 31-yard line when his knee hit at the 29. a’s ball first-and-10 on a31. ruling: reviewable play. Runners down by contact, out of bounds, or his helmet coming off are non-reviewable situations on running plays. The most frequent is whether a runner fumbled or was down by hit, or that his helmet came off before he lost a.r.62 runner fumbled – officials make preliminary ruling of recovery first-and-10 on 50.62. a2 takes a handoff and runs to the b42 where he loses the ball and several players from both teams attempt a2 takes a handoff and runs up the middle to the b47 and fumbles. A1 gains control of the ball at the a34 while airborne but loses possession after hitting the ground out of bounds. a’s ball second 12 a.r. 12: 15.81 two-minute fumble second-and-12 on a23. with 1:12 remaining in the second quarter, the ball bounces up to a2 who runs to the a28 where he is Passing plays whether a pass is complete or incomplete is always reviewable. This includes in the field of play, at a sideline, and in an end zone. Only the replay official can initiate a review of this play. a’s ball first-and-10 on a45. reset the clock to the time when a2 caught the ball and was down by contact, and wind clock on the ready-for-play. can also review whether the pass If a player has firm control of the ball with two feet or another body part (other than his hands) touching down inbounds, and then performs an act common to the game before losing it, it is a catch and fumble. If a.r. 15.120 process complete before losing control first-and-goal on b5. a1 clearly controls a pass in the end zone, gets two feet completely down, tucks the ball and starts to turn before he is Team a is awarded the ball at the spot where possession was lost in the team’s own end zone, and the ball will be placed at the one-yard line. If a fumble in the end zone occurs on fourth down or after If there is no clear recovery, the ball will be awarded to the team last in possession at the spot where possession was lost. If the ball goes out of bounds through an end zone, it is either a touchback or a safety. If Passer’s whole body and the ball must be over the line of scrimmage when he releases the ball. For it to be illegal, the player receiving the handoff must be clearly in. advance of the player making the. handoff a1 throws a pass to a2 near the sideline and then is tackled at the 50, but he is flagged for illegally touching the pass. The touch must occur away from the interference and by a player other than the one who caused the interference a.r. 15.168 forward progress, no safety third-and-10 on a5. is hit at the a1 and driven backwards into the end zone. a1 fumbled before crossing the goal line and the ball went out a2 takes a handoff and fumbles when hit by b3, but then a2 pulls the ball out of b4’s hands and a3 recovers the loose ball in the end zone. replay can reverse to a score if The game clock is reviewable, and time can be put back on the clock in certain situations. If the clock operator incorrectly starts the game clock, replay can fix the error, provided the correction occurs before the next legal snap or kick. a.r 15.194 reset game clock at end of game third-and-5 on b36. with 0:06 remaining in the fourth quarter, team a trails 20-13. behind 10-0. at the end of the a.r. 15.204 down by contact after change of possession first-and-10 on a20. a1 recovers a fumble at the b45 and is tackled in bounds at the a20-yard line with 9:40 on a.r. 15.214 pass ruled complete in end zone second-and-3 on b14. qba1’s pass to a3 is ruled complete at the end line for a td with 0:45 remaining on the If a team challenges a ruling that can only be challenged by the replay official, it will be charged with a timeout, but not a challenge. A 15-yard penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct will be enforced as a foul between downs. The head coach has two choices: go through with the challenge and all normal rules will apply. If the play stands, the team loses a challenge and a timeout. The only exception to this is when a team challenges the line to gain and the If the team that did not commit the foul challenges the previous play, then replay can review all aspects and either team may benefit from the review. replay officials and designated members of the officiating department can consult with the referee on administrative matters and certain Referee throws flag for intentional grounding on third-and-10 on a8. replay cannot review how many players were in the offensive huddle if officials do not rule a dead-ball foul for too many players. a palpably unfair act A team cannot challenge the same play twice. The play can be reviewed up until the next legal snap. Both teams committed a foul that prevented a snap, so neither team can challenge the previous play.