 Ultimate is a non-contact, self-officiated disc sport played by two teams of seven players. Goal is scored when a player catches any legal pass in the end zone that player is attacking. Players are morally bound to abide by the rules and not gain advantage by knowingly committing an infraction, or calling one where none exists. The integrity of ultimate depends on each player’s responsibility to uphold the spirit of the game. Players and team leaders should acknowledge and recognize that the implementation of spirit of the game (sotg) is susceptible to bias. Reckless play or dangerously aggressive behavior must be avoided by all participants. Best perspective is the most complete view available by a player that includes the relative positions of the disc, ground, players, and line markers involved in a play. If no player has sufficient perspective to make a call, the disc should revert to the thrower. Disc is “dead” when play has stopped and can continue only with a check (see 9.d) a throw is only considered complete when an offensive player gains possession that is not otherwise negated. The term play stops means a stoppage of play occurs. Players may seek the perspective of sideline players to clarify the rules and to assist players in making the appropriate call. If no player has sufficient perspective to make a call, the disc should revert to the thrower or remain with the receiver on the end zone line. If no player has possession of a disc in play, any offensive player may become the thrower. A player must establish a pivot at the spot of the disc, and touch the disc to the ground (14.2) prior to attempting a pass (17.k) a “live” disc is “in play” when players are allowed to move and the disc is subject to a turnover. A dead disc may change states to either live or in play after a check. Offensive player: a player whose team is in possession of the disc. sideline player: any team member who is present at the field and eligible to participate in the game, but who is not a player participating in the current point of play. The standard field of play has dimensions as shown on the accompanying diagram (see appendix a). The playing field is a rectangular area and should be essentially flat, free of obstructions and afford reasonable player safety. Each player must wear a uniform or other clothing distinguishing that player from players on the other team. A game is played until one team first reaches the game total. The game total is the predetermined number of goals to win the game. The soft cap occurs once a predetermined time of play has elapsed. Any player on the injured player’s team may call an injury timeout. The timeout is retroactive to the time of the injury, unless the player chooses to continue play before the timeout is called. If a player in possession leaves the field following an injury, the replacing player takes possession. A technical timeout may be called for illegal equipment, a dangerous condition, or a broken disc. A spirit timeout may be called by one or both teams’ spirit captain(s) if they believe that (1) game play play has become dangerous; (2) repeated spirit of the game violations are causing conflict between the teams. A timeout stops play and suspends time limit counts. Players at the time of a timeout call must return to play unless an injury timeout also is called. Defense has ninety seconds after the beginning of the timeout or up to twenty seconds after all offensive players have established their positions (whichever is longer) to check the disc into play. Any player on the injured player’s team may call an injury timeout. The timeout is retroactive to the time of the injury, unless the player chooses to continue play before the timeout is called. The opposing team must be notified as soon as the injury is discovered (8.2) A technical timeout may be called for illegal equipment, a dangerous condition, or a broken disc. The thrower may call a technical timeout during play to replace a cracked, torn, deeply gouged, creased, or punctured disc; a warped, wet or dirty disc does not qualify. Players must resume their locations on the field at the time the timeout began (i.e., players may not set up), unless a team timeout is also called. The thrower restarts play at the appropriate spot with a check and the marker resumes any stall count. The default format is for teams to form one spirit circle, alternating players from each team, if possible. Two circles will be formed, one for each team to internally resolve spirit issues that have already been discussed between the spirit captains of the opposing team. If teams require more time to resolve spirit discussions, the timeout can be extended with the consent of both spirit captains. A team must call a violation as soon as one is discovered. The other team chooses whether to restart the point using re-pull timings (9.5.a) or to restart play as if a team timeout had been called (7.b.4) with the stall count determined by the applicable violation resolution of 15.a.a. If a player drops the disc while carrying it to the spot where it is to be put into play and it contacts the ground before the thrower regains possession, the other team gains possession of the disc at the spot on the central zone nearest to the drop. There is no stoppage of play when putting the pull into play. Play starts at the beginning of each half and after a goal, the teams switch their direction of attack and the scoring team pulls. The pull occurs when the puller throws (3.k) the disc after signaling readiness. Defense has twenty seconds after all offensive players have established their positions to check the disc into play. If the pulling team is offsides and the receiving team commits a false start, the offense may not attempt a pass until the disc is checked into play by the defense. If a violation of 9.3.a is called after a goal has been scored and prior to the ensuing pull, the other team may choose to nullify the goal and restart the point using re-pull timings (9.5.a) or to restart play as if a team timeout had been called (7.b.4) with the stall count determined by the applicable violation resolution of 15.a.a. The pulling team may call “false start” before the receiving team gains possession of the disc. The offsides and false start calls do not stop play, and the continuation rule (17.c) does not apply. Disc is put into play at the spot on the central zone (i.e., excluding the end zones) nearest to where it first crossed the perimeter line to become out-of-bounds. Five (55) seconds after the previous goal was scored, the receiving team must line up for the purpose of allowing the pulling team to match up defensively. Other team members (coaches, support staff, sideline players) may be present on the field during this time. If play is to restart with a check, but no defensive player is near enough to touch the disc in the thrower’s hand, play restarts with an offensive self-check. The thrower establishes a pivot at the appropriate spot on the field, touches the disc to the ground and loudly announces “in play.” The entire playing field is in-bounds. Disc becomes in-bounds when it is put into play, or when play starts or restarts. Team gaining possession of disc must carry it to, and put it into play at, the spot on the central zone nearest to where the most recent of the following events occurred. If a player scores according to 12.a, but then unknowingly throws another pass, a goal is awarded to that player, regardless of the outcome of the pass. If after receiving a pass outside the end zone, a player must carry the disc back to, and put it into play at, the closest spot on the goal line. A turnover results when: a pass is incomplete, a disc contacts the ground while not in possession of a player other than as a result of a pull. If the thrower drops a live disc or a disc in play without defensive interference, it is considered a turnover. If a defender accidentally loses possession of the disc before or during ground contact related to the catch, the pass is considered incomplete rather than intercepted. The marker’s count reaches ten before the throw is released (15.a.3) the thrower hands the disc to another player. The thrower catches a legally thrown disc but it is not a turnover if another player touches the disc during its flight. In- or out-of-bounds, any member of the team becoming offense may take possession of it. If an offensive player picks up a live or in play disc, that player must put it into play. If the disc is out-of-bounds, after twenty seconds elapse, a defensive player within 10 feet of the disc may announce “disc in,” and then initiate and continue the stall count. non playing members of the team on offense may assist in retrieving live discs outside the player and team lines. Only the marker (3.q.6) may initiate or continue a stall count, and may do so anytime a thrower has possession of a disc that is live or in play. The stall count may not be initiated or resumed before a pivot is established: directly after a turnover, when putting the pull into play, and after a travel is called and no pass has been attempted. A stall count consists of announcing “stalling” and counting from one to ten loudly enough for the thrower to hear. Only the marker (3.q.6) may initiate or continue a stall count, and may do so anytime a thrower has possession of a disc that is live or in play. The stall count consists of announcing “stalling” and counting from one to ten loudly enough for the thrower to hear. The interval between the first utterance of each number in the stall count must be at least one second. If the count resets to one during a stoppage of play, it is considered a new count. If the defense switches markers, the new marker must reinitiate the stall count. A marker leaving the ten foot radius and returning is considered a new marker. If a stall count is interrupted by a call, the thrower and marker are responsible for agreeing on the correct count before the check. The marker’s responsibility to announce if play was affected for the purpose of the continuation rule (17.c) generally speaking, due to 17.l, calls made by another player cannot be said to affect play. However, in limited situations for contested marking violation calls, when the marker diverts their attention away from marking while reasonably and quickly assessing the conditions to the thrower's marking violation call, the marker could determine that play is affected. The defense commits a marking violation after being called for a mark violation during the same stall count (15.a.1) but before the thrower is in the act of throwing. The thrower may choose to either call another marking violation or to treat the marking violation as a general defensive violation. If a call is made when the disc is in air or the thrower is in the act of throwing, play continues until the outcome of that pass is determined. An uncontested stall that occurs after another call is treated the same as an incomplete pass. If the player who called the infraction does not announce “play on” and the opposing team is uncertain whether play should continue, opposing team has the option to stop play by calling “violation” Play restarts at the spot on the playing field closest to the point of release. If multiple infractions occur on the same play or before play stops, outcomes should be resolved in reverse sequence (latest infraction first, earliest infraction last) A dangerous play committed against a player unaware of the approaching disc will be treated as a receiving foul. Even if a third player happens to make a successful play on the disc, as the players under the disc were attempting a play on it, the calling player would deem the third player’s play so independent and removed from the involved players that the call player wishes to treat the dangerous play as a general foul. Some amount of incidental contact before, during, or immediately after the attempt often is unavoidable and is not a foul. All players have the right to enter the air space immediately above their torso to make a play on a thrown disc. If a foul causes a player to lose possession of the disc, it is a strip. Play stops when the thrower in possession acknowledges that an infraction has been called. The thrower must touch the disc to the ground before attempting a legal pass. If a defender calls “pick” while trailing a receiver by 6 feet, the defender should indicate whether the pick affected the play. If the pass is incomplete, play stops and the disc reverts to the thrower unless the specific rule (e.g., the receiving foul rule) says otherwise. Players should treat the call as if it was made when the infraction occurred in determining whether the call was made before or after the thrower was in the act of throwing. If a dispute arises concerning an infraction or the outcome of a play (e.g., a catch where no one had a good perspective) and the teams cannot come to a satisfactory resolution, play stops. The disc is returned to the thrower and put into play with a check (9.d), with the count reached plus one or at six if over five. The proper call in such circumstances is “dangerous play” and play stops. Players have an affirmative obligation to make reasonable efforts to avoid contact. dangerous play is considered a foul regardless of whether or when the disc arrives or contact occurs. The disc in a thrower’s possession is considered part of the thrower. Contact with the extended (i.e., away from the midline of the body) arms or legs of a marker is a foul on the marker. A player may not call a strip if they had only momentary contact with or lacked control of the disc at the time of an opponent contacting the disc because the player did not have possession. The proper call in such circumstances is “dangerous play” and play stops. dangerous play is considered a foul regardless of whether or when the disc arrives or contact occurs. The vast majority of dangerous play will involve contact between players. Contact is not required for a player to invoke this rule where there is reasonable certainty contact would have occurred had the player not taken steps to avoid contact. dangerous play occurring when or immediately after the disc is in the air is treated as a receiving foul if either player involved is attempting a play on the disc. If multiple players accumulate under a floating disc, one player’s dangerous play will be treated as receiving foul, even if a third player happens to make a successful play. If a player contacts an opponent while the disc is in the air and thereby interferes with that opponent’s attempt to make a play on the disc, that player has committed a receiving foul. Some amount of incidental contact before, during, or immediately after the attempt often is unavoidable and is not a foul. Contact initiated by a thrower with the body of a legally positioned (15.b) marker is a foul on the thrower. The thrower may instead choose to call “contact” instead of calling “foul.” play does not stop and the marker resumes the stall count at “one” other than resetting the stall. If a player contacts an opponent while the disc is in the air and thereby interferes with that opponent’s attempt to make a play on the disc, that player has committed a receiving foul. Some amount of incidental contact before, during, or immediately after the attempt often is unavoidable and is not a foul. Each of the following is a travel: a player catches the disc and either speeds up, changes direction or does not stop as quickly as possible before establishing a pivot (16.b) purposeful bobbling (including tipping, delaying, guiding, brushing, or the like) to oneself in order to advance the disc in any direction from where it initially was contacted. The thrower must touch the disc to the ground before attempting a legal pass. If a defender commits this infraction and the result of the play is a turnover, the defender retains possession at the initial spot of the travel. exceptions: if a non-standing player loses contact with the pivot spot in order to stand up, it is not a travel, provided the new pivot is established at the same location. The defense (typically the marker) points to the spot where the travel occurred, and the thrower returns to that spot without delay. The thrower must touch the disc to the ground before attempting a legal pass. Any player directly involved in a dispute may request observer resolution. Play restarts with a check when an observer is involved in resolving a dispute. Players agree to abide by observers’ decisions. Personal misconduct foul (pmf) can be assessed against a specific team member for particularly egregious conduct or a pattern of such behavior. There is no limit to the number of tmfs or misconduct penalties a team can accrue during a game. A personal misconduct foul (pmf) can be assessed against a specific team member for particularly egregious conduct or a pattern of such behavior. assessment of a pmf is non-reviewable for the duration of the game, although it may be appealed to the ada after the game. A tmf will be issued when a team demonstrates a pattern of poor spirit or disregard for the rules, by committing intentional, repeated, or flagrant infractions. behavior warranting sanctions includes deliberate fouling, dangerous play, taunting, fighting, swearing directed at an official or opponent. All players must remain in the positions they occupied when play stopped, unless the ejection also triggers a team misconduct penalty, as described in the following sections. A team whose player is ejected may substitute another player, and the opposing team also may exchange a player if they wish. All players must remain in the positions they occupied when play stopped, unless the ejection also triggers a team misconduct penalty, as described in the following sections. If the penalty is against the receiving team, the disc is put into play at the brick mark closest to the end zone they are attacking (refer to tmf against defense above, b3.f) Captain can decline a misconduct penalty and leave the disc as is. There are not currently any requirements for rules adaptations for youth under this edition of the rules. A sand foul occurs when a player causes sand to fly into an opponent’s face in a way that significantly interferes with their play, such as in the eyes or up their nose. “9 if over 8” becomes “6 if over 5” and “4 if over 3” contested stall first call “5” second and subsequent calls.