 Official rules of the women’s national basketball association 2022 copyright © 20 22 wnba enterprises, llc all rights reserved. Court and dimensions of the court shall be measured and marked as s hown in the court diagram (see page a) Court dimensions and markings as shown on court diagram. All boundary lines a re part of the lane; lane space marks and neutral zone marks are not. the areas identified by the lane space markings are 2" by 8". Each basket must have a pressure-release wnba approved m etal safety ring 18" in inside diameter with a white cord net 15" to 18" length. Each basket will be securely attached to the backboard with its upper edge 10' above and parallel to the floor. Officials have the power to render decisions for infractions of rules committed inside or outside the boundary lines. This includes perio ds when the game may be stopped for any reason. The scorers shall keep a record of the names, numbers and positions of the pla yers who are to start the game and of all substitutes who enter the game. They shall record the timeo uts charged to each team, shall notify a team and its coach through an official whenever that tea m is granted its final (regular or 20-second) timeout, and shall notify the nearest official each t ime a team is granted a charged timeout in excess of the legal number. The wnba rules govern how the game is played and how it is officiated by the league office. All coaches and trainers must remain on the bench during timeouts. A player may be replaced and allowed to re- enter the game as a substitute during the same dead ball. A player must be in the vicinity of the substitution box at the time a violation occurs if the throw -in is to be administered in the backcourt. A team’s basket consists of the basket ring and net t hrough which its players try to shoot the ball. A free throw is the privilege given to a player to score one point by an unhindered attempt for the goal from a position directly behind the free throw line. This attempt must be made within 10 seconds. A ball being held by a player is in the frontcourt if neither the ball nor the player is touching the backcourt. All periods of regulation play in the wnba will be ten minutes. overtime period s of play will be five minutes. 120 seconds will be permitted for mandatory timeouts between the first and second periods, the third and fourth periods. If neither team has called a regular timeout prior to 4:59 o f the first or third period, it shall be mandatory for the official scorer to take a tim eout at the first dead ball and charge it to neither team. No timeout shall be granted to the defensive team during an official’s suspension -of-play for (1) a delay-of-game warning, (2) retrieving an errant ball, (3) an inadvertent whistle, or (4) any other unusual circumstance. If a team calls a 20 -second timeout because one of its players is injured, a regular timeout will be charged to that team. If a player is injured as a result of a player on the oppo sing team committing a flagrant foul or unsportsmanlike act, play will resume when pla ying conditions are safe. Free throw violation by the offensive team (5) flagrant foul -penalty (1) or (2) (6) punching foul (7) defensive three -seconds (offensive team retains possession) (8) jump ball violation at free throw circle (9) ball passing directly behind backboard (10) offensive basket interference (11) ball hitting horizontal basket support (12) loose ball fouls which occur inside the free throw line extended (13) five-second back -to-the-basket violation. Each jumper must have both feet within the restraining circle. The ball must be tapped by one or both of the players participating in the jump ball after it reaches its highest point. If the ball falls to the floor without being tapped by at l east one of the jumpers. One of the officials off the ball shall w histle the ball dead and signal another toss. Shot clock shall be reset to 24 seconds anytime the following occurs: (1) change of possession. (2) personal foul where the ball is being inbounded in the backcourt. (3) jump balls which are not the result of a held ball caused by the defense. (4) violation where ball from playing court contacting the bask et ring of the team which is in possession. exception: rule 7 —section iv —e (6) all flagrant and punching fouls. A throw -in which touches the floor, or any object on o r outside the boundary line, or touches anything above the playing surface is a violation. A jump ball shall be administered at midcourt between any two opponents in the game. Each of the spaces nearest the endline must be occupied by an opponent of the free throw shoot er. No point can be scored if the free throw attempt is to remain in play and a teammate of the shooter violates. One point shall be scored and play will continue as after any successful free throw with the official administering the throw -in. A player shall not touch the ball before it touches the basket ring or backboard. A player who is dribbling may not put any part of her hand under the ball and (1) carry it from one point to another or (2) bring it to a pause and then continue to dribble again. A player may not dribble a second time after she has voluntarily ended her first dribble. A team shall not be in continuous possession of a ball which is in its backcourt fo r more than eight consecutive seconds. The shot clock shall remain the same as when play was interrupted or reset to 14 seconds, whichever is greater. If a violation is whistled during a successful field goal attempt, the violation shall b e ignored and play shall resume as after any successful basket. An offensive player in her frontcourt below the free t hrow li ne extended shall not be permitted to dribble with her back or side to the basket for more than five seconds. The ball is awarded to the opponent at the point of interruption but no nearer to the basel ine than the foul line extended. A player entering the game when beckone d by an official with her shirt untucked. A free throw shooter venturing fully beyond the three -point line between attempts. The first offense is a warning. a technical f oul shall be assessed with each successive offense and charged to the team. A technical foul can be assessed for unsportsmanlike tactics such as: (1) disresp ectfully addressing an official (2) ph ysically contacting an official. (3) overt actions indicating resentment to a call (4) use of profanity (5) a deliberately -thrown elbow or any attempt ed physical act with no contact involved (7) taunting e. cursing or blaspheming an official shall not be conside red the only cause for imposing technical fouls. All players not participating in the game must remain in the immediate vicinity of their bench. Violators will be suspen ded, without pay, for a minimum of one game and fined. If four or more players leave the bench, the players will serve t heir suspensions alphabetically according to the first letters of their last nam es. A foul is committed on any offensive player during her team’s transition scoring opportunity. A clear -path-to-the-basket foul cannot occur if (i) the offensive player is fouled in the act of shooting or (ii) the foul is caused by the defender's attempt to intercept or de flect a pass intended for the. offensive player with the scoring opportunity and that offensive player. is in control of her body at all times. The first four common fouls committed by a team in any regulation period shall result in the ball being awarded to the opposing tea m on the sideline nearest where play was interrupted but no nearer the baseline than the free throw line extended. If a team has not committed its quota of four te am fouls during the first eight minutes of any regulation peri od, it shall be p ermitted to incur one team foul during the last two minutes without penalty. Personal fouls which are flagrant, punching, away from -the-play, or clear -path-to-the-basket will carry their own separate penalti es and are included in the team foul total. If a “loose ball” foul called against the offensive team i s then followed by a successful field goal attempt by the same offensive p layer, no points may be scored. Officials are not reasonably certain whether a pe rsonal foul called at any time during a game met the criteria for a clear -path-to-the-basket foul. Officials not certain if a team had the correct number of players on the court while the b all is in play. Officials will judge the legality of the basket in these situations based on the guidelines as set fo rth in comments on the rules l. section ii. Officials will review the video to determine whether the shot was timely, whether the successful field goal was scored correctl y as a two -point or three -point field goal or, in the c ase of a shooting foul. The officials will also review whether an 8 -second backcourt violation occur red before the ball entered the frontcourt. Not committed on or by a player in the act of shooting: (i) whether the foul occurred prior to the expi ration of time on the shot clock; or (ii) whe ther the shooter released the ball prior to. the. shooter releasing the first free throw attempt or prior. to the subsequent inbounding of the ball. The officials will review the video to determine whether the successful fie ld goal was scored correctly as a two -point or three -point field goal or, in the case of a foul, whether the shooter fouled committed a boundary line violation. The officials will time play to determine how much time should be on t he shot clock or if a shot clock violation should be assessed. If play is continuous (i.e., if there is no stoppage in play follow ing the offensive team retaining possession of the ball), the officials will stop play during the first pause in action prior to any subsequent change of possession. The rules are intended to create a balance of play, equal opportunit y for the defense and the offense, provide reasonable safety and protection for all players and emphasize cleverness and skill wit hout unduly limiting freedom of action of players or teams. A flagrant foul —penalty (1) is unnecessary contact c ommitted by a player against an opponent. The offender will be subject to a fine and/or suspen sion by the commissioner. The decision to postpone or cancel a game can only be made by the league office, after consultation with the affecte d teams. The right of protest shall inure not only to the immediately allegedly aggrieved contestants but to any other team who can show an interest in the grounds of protest and the results that might be attained if the protest were allowed. The commissioner will decide the qu estion raised within five (5) days after receipt of such evidence. If 0 :00.3 or less remain o n the game clock when a player requests a timeout upon securing possession of the ball, the period is over. The officials (as aided by instant r eplay, if required) will ultimately make the final decision whether to allow or disallow a successful field goal. Outcome of the contact (e.g., whether it led to an altercation) determines whether the contact led to a physical altercation.